https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-arts



 












Faculty of Arts | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Arts

















Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Bachelor of Arts
Course code – C01
The University of Nairobi offers a wide range of academic programmes leading to Bachelor of Arts (BA) degrees in diverse fields of humanities and social sciences spread across 11 departments and 1 sub-department. The Bachelor of Arts programme promotes excellence in teaching, research and publications in humanities and social sciences, generation and dissemination of knowledge on cultural, socio-economic, political and geographical environment, while preserving and encouraging the best in our national heritage.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Information Science
Course code - C38
A student must satisfy the prescribed University of Nairobi requirements for admission to the Faculty of Arts.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Travel and Tourism Management
Course code -C78
The B.A. (Tourism) programme is designed with the foregoing in mind. It incorporates the varied elements of the tourism and travel industry.  This Faculty-based curriculum approaches the tourism industry from a multi-disciplinary perspective, the courses being derived primarily from disciplines within Social Sciences and the Humanities. It blends theory-oriented courses with practice-oriented ones in order to equip the graduate with the tools to confidently navigate the increasingly sophisticated world of tourism and travel.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Hospitality Management
Course code - C79
This programme will run for a minimum of eight (8) semesters and maximum of 22 semesters from the date of registration. The minimum semester load shall be two course units and the maximum shall be seven course units. Each course unit in the programme has a loading of 45 hours.
Click here for more information




Master of Arts
Course code - C50 
The programme covers a minimum of four semesters and a maximum of 15 semesters. An MA candidate is required to take 12 taught course units-three core, five specialisations and four elective-and a project, which is the equivalent of four-course units. The minimum qualifications a candidate needs are either a Bachelors degree in Literature or a relevant field of the University of Nairobi with at least a Lower Second Class or equivalent qualifications from institutions the University of Nairobi Senate recognises or a Bachelors (Pass) degree plus a postgraduate diploma in a relevant field.
Click here for more information
Master of Library and Information Science
Course code - C54
The common regulations governing Masters Degrees in the Faculty of Arts Programmes shall apply: 1. At least an upper class second honors degree or equivalent in any discipline from the University of Nairobi or any other university recognized by the University of Nairobi Senate. 2. At least a lower-second class honors degree or equivalent in any discipline from the University of Nairobi or any other university recognized by the University of Nairobi senate with three (3) years experience. 3. A pass in the first degree or equivalent in any discipline from the University of Nairobi or any other university recognized by the University of Nairobi senate with at least five (5) years experience.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Linguistics
Course code - C507
The aim of this syllabus is to train competent teachers and lecturers of various subjects in theoretical and applied linguistics, competent researchers in the same areas, and people capable of describing any language spoken in Kenya. Its specific objectives are:
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in German Studies
Course code - C531
The Masters of Arts Program in Intercultural German Studies offered in the Department of Linguistics and Languages is intended to train M.A. students of Intercultural German Studies in order to provide them with an adequate academic background in the study of German literature, culture and language as well according them high quality training for jobs where competence in German Studies is required.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Kiswahili Studies
Course code - C508
In view of the importance of Kiswahili as Kenya’s national language and official language, the Department of Kiswahili is offering an M.A degree in Swahili Studies to train manpower that will be able to teach this subject at all levels including the University and teacher training colleges. The course also aims at training people who will be competent to undertake research in various aspects of the language including lexicography, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics and dialectology. In addition, the course also aims at producing manpower needed in various Government Departments, parasternal bodies and NGOs, and the mass media as advisors, translators, writers of official and legal documents, journals and planners in language and related areas. The course is also intended to provide a social basis for PhD work in Swahili language studies.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Translation
Course code – Y61 
The MA in Translation is intended to respond to the situation outlined in the philosophy of this course by providing students who wish to undertake masters studies in Translation, with an opportunity to delve into the theoretical and practical depths of Translation. The course also gives such students an opportunity to acquire necessary competences and to advance their research and practical skills. 
This is a professional course designed to train professional translators to high international standards in order for them to become practitioners who are well equipped to practice in the global market. It is intended to fill a training gap in this region as there are no other institutions offering such a programme.
This is a postgraduate degree programme that is designed to equip students with the theoretical and practical skills necessary for them to become professional translators. Apart from equipping them with the knowledge and understanding of the discipline of translation, the programme also has a strong practical element in which students will translate texts from various fields and cultural contexts. The course is designed for practicing translators, linguists, professionals from various fields and all those keen on improving their translation skills or starting a career in translation. The programme offers training in translation in various languages including English, Kiswahili, Arabic, French, Spanish, German and Chinese.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Interpretation
Course code – Y62 
As the world moves into the future, people are striving to integrate thereby making mediation inevitable and Interpretation a more needed tool to enable communication to take place in linguistic and cultural diversity. There arises the need therefore, to entrench the understanding of the discipline of Interpretation through research and the training of interpreters at a higher academic level, and hence a demand for high caliber trained interpreters who in turn will train others and carry out research in the different aspects of the discipline.
The Master of Arts in Interpretation is an Applied Linguistics programme which centres mainly on impacting the learner with the understanding of theoretical underpinnings on which the practical skills of Interpretation are anchored. For the learners to gain mastery and the necessary competence in the handling these aspects of Interpretation, a bachelor’s degree is not adequate for their familiarization with the literature and theoretical perspectives needed in order to carry out become appropriate Interpretation. Addressing these issues adequately calls for comprehensive practical coursework in the MA in Interpretation curriculum.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Literature
Course code - C527 
The current syllabus provides only one option, that is, all MA in Literature students take the same taught courses and undertake a project in the final semester.  With the growing demands and diverse needs of the industry, it was felt that students should be given the choice to do a Research Project, as has been hitherto the case, or to work on a one year research-based thesis where the scope of their research can be broader and the student may go deeper in his or her area of interest.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in History
Course code C505 
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Armed Conflict and Peace Studies
Course code - C516
The programme was set up due the general desire by learners to develop a deep understanding of the subject of Armed Conflict and Peace and consequently create a pool of professionals armed with knowledge and skills to tackle conflicts and entrench peace in many parts of the world.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Philosophy
Course code C502 
The M.A. degree programme shall consist of coursework, examination and a project paper or thesis, and shall run for a minimum of 4 semesters of fifteen weeks each, and a maximum of 10 semesters; and this maximum may be extended only with the prior approval of the Senate of the University of Nairobi. Instructions shall be given in the form of lectures, lecture-discussions, class presentations, seminars, demonstration, fieldwork, lab work, student-lecturer consultations, supervised independent research, or any combination of these.Students shall undergo continuous assessment in each taught course in each semester, which shall take the form of written tests, term paper, oral presentations, field assignment, or any combination of these.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Religious Studies
Course code - C503
The M.A. degree programme shall consist of coursework, examination and a project paper or thesis, and shall run for a minimum of 4 semesters of fifteen weeks each, and a maximum of 10 semesters; and this maximum may be extended only with the prior approval of the Senate of the University of Nairobi. Instructions shall be given in the form of lectures, lecture-discussions, class presentations, seminars, demonstration, fieldwork, lab work, student-lecturer consultations, supervised independent research, or any combination of these. Students shall undergo continuous assessment in each taught course in each semester, which shall take the form of written tests, term paper, oral presentations, field assignment, or any combination of these.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Human Rights
Course code - C53 
The human rights and peace pogramme was established in 2008. Since then, the programme has grown very rapidly.  It undertakes collaborative multidisciplinary teaching, training, research, consultancy and community service in human rights and peace, and currently spearheads a Master of Arts Degree in human rights at the University. It draws staff from the University of Nairobi School of law, School of Economics, School of Diplomacy and International Studies, School of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Arts, and Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies.
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy in Information Science
Course code - C823
The common regulations for admission requirements for PhD in the University of Nairobi shall apply. In addition, applicants must be holders of a Masters degree in information science or any other information science related discipline from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by University of Nairobi Senate. In either case, the applicant must be able to produce evidence, to the satisfaction of Senate, of his adequate background in the discipline and capacity to carry out original research. In addition to producing evidence of eligibility for registration, candidates for the Doctor of Philosophy degree may be required to appear for interview by the Faculty/Institute/School/Centre concerned to determine their suitability for registration.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Linguistics and Languages
Course code - C811
The Doctor of Philosophy degree in Linguistics and Languages is designed to produce competent graduates in linguistics theory and practice. It is also designed to produce professionals who are able to apply linguistic knowledge and expertise in solving communications among other language related problems in the society.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Kiswahili Studies
Course code - C82
The programme of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Kiswahili Studies seeks to strengthen the knowledge base of Kiswahili scholars, enabling them to undertake critical analysis of important Linguistics and Literary issues, to conduct and co-ordinate multi/inter-disciplinary research, and to disseminate information and data for sustainable use of the language. The knowledge gained by those specializing in Kiswahili Studies will enable adequate Analysis, Translation, Research, teaching and examination of the language leading to effective rehabilitation and restoration of Kiswahaili as a National and International language.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Translation
Course Code- Y71
The PhD in translation is intended to respond to the situation outlined in the philosophy of this course by providing students who wish to undertake doctoral studies in translation, with an opportunity to delve into the theoretical and practical depths of translation in which they have research interest. The course also gives such students an opportunity to acquire necessary competences and to advance their research and practical skills.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Interpretation
Course Code- Y72
The PhD in Interpretation is intended to respond to the situation outlined in the philosophy of this course by providing students who wish to undertake doctoral studies in interpretation, with an opportunity to delve into the theoretical and practical depths of interpretation in which they have research interest. The course also gives such students an opportunity to acquire necessary competences and to advance their research and practical skills.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Literature
Course Code- C802
The programme comprises research and thesis and takes a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of four years of full-time study or five years of part-time study after the candidate registers for the programme. Graduates with PhD in literature come out with the qualitative and quantitative skills necessary for professional research and teaching in English. The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in History
Course Code- C807
Undertaking a PhD research at UoN is an exciting experience which goes beyond the interactions between the student and supervisor/s. Our students are exposed to teaching and learning from multiple disciplines in the university. Exposing students to diverse shades of intellectual discourse through teaching by different lecturers and research is a crucial goal of this programme. We consequently graduate individuals who are exposed and grounded on the potent multiplicity of intellectual opinions that exist beyond history as a discipline.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Religious Studies
Course Code- C813
The Doctor of Philosophy in Religious Studies is an advanced degree for graduates of the historical faculties department awarded via dissertation. Religious studies focus on the supernatural, sacred or divine and the moral code, ritual practices, dogmas, values or associated institutions. Religion has several functions that are expressed through the human behaviour: cognitive or action function, anxiety reduction, social function, compensation and identity.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Philosophy
Course code - C805
The Philosophy by thesis governed by the common regulations for registration on and qualification on of doctoral candidates in the Faculty of Arts. After defending a proposal for a research topic that is vetted by the Department at a Departmental Seminar, a PhD candidate will work on the topic of his or her choice under the supervision of Senior Departmental Academic staff.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






