https://www.rongovarsity.ac.ke/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/Duties-of-officials-of-the-Students-Asociation.pdfRONGO UNIVERSITY OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF STUDENTS RONGO UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ASSOCIATION ELECTIONS 2020 DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES OF OFFICIALS/ORGANS A.Executive Council(7 Members) 1.Chairperson i.Shall be the head of the Executive and preside over the associationÕs meetings. ii.Shall summon the Executive meetings. iii.Shall be an automatic co-signatory of RUSA bank account and any other negotiable instrument stipulated in the Constitution. iv.Shall represent RUSA at the University Council/Senate when necessary and the Disciplinary Committee unless he or she is an affected party or have a special interest, in event of such, the Vice Chairman shall represent him or her. v.Shall give an opening address to the Congress in the first meeting after every election. vi.Shall be the spokesperson of RUSA. vii.Shall remain a symbol of unity to the RUSA. viii.Shall represent the Executive Council, Congress and RUSA at national and international levels. ix.Shall assent to all the bills passed by Congress. x.Shall ensure proper and cordial relations among various organs of RUSA and University Administration. 2.Vice Chairperson i.To deputize the Chairman in his or her absence or as shall assign. ii.The representative of the Executive in the Congress. iii.In conjunction with club officials coordinators, liaise with the Dean of Students on the activities of registered clubs/movements/associations. iv.In liaison with the Dean of Students, organize students leadership or training programs. v.To work in close liaison with the office of chief Security officer and head of hostels and catering department to ensure efficient provision of services to RUSA members. vi.To be the custodian for all the facilities and equipment acquired for students use. vii.Shall present the interests and grievances of all the RUSA members pertaining their well-being to the relevant authorities. viii.Perform any other relevant duty as may be assigned by the Executive and/or the Congress. 1 