https://www.rongovarsity.ac.ke/cmdps/ 





CENTER FOR MEDIA, DEMOCRACY, PEACE & SECURITY – Excellence in Media and Peace Building


























































Skip to content




+254718878578ogengafredrick@gmail.com 









Rongo University Main Website








 

MenuHomeAbout us

History Activities
PublicationsResources

Media and Politics in Africa Post-conflict Institutional Designs
Members profileGalleryBlogContact usCLOSE 






 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 








CMDPSThe Center for Media, Democracy, Peace and Security is an independent Directorate in Rongo University designed to conduct high quality research in media, democracy, peace and security and generate knowledge consistent with Rongo University vision of nurturing research, innovation and outreach initiatives for the betterment of communities both locally, nationally and internationally. The directorate is…




Salah Farah Visiting Research FellowshipRongo University’s  Center of Media, Democracy, Peace and Security is spearheading youth anti-radicalization through a post-doctoral visiting research fellowship in honor of the late Salah Farah. This fellowship will target recent Ph.D graduates, upcoming and senior researchers to conduct up to three months of research in the area of youth radicalization and terrorism and the…




UNESCO HYBRID PEACE JOURNALISM CLUB  Through our recent collaboration with UNESCO that gave RU UNESCO Chair for four years, CMDPS is working with high school students in Migori County for peace building through: Comedy Talent shows (News writing and reporting) Training workshops for film production in collaboration with the Peace Maker Foundation Kenya. Students compete to make a short…






 


About Us 






Our Vision 
To be a global center of excellence in media, democracy, peace and security research and practice Recently the Horn of Africa has been faced with serious challenges regarding peace and security as has the African continent as a whole. Part ofthe problem, it has emerged; is that the media often covers conflict sensationally therefore fuelling…

 Read More 


 





Our Mission 
To conduct research, policy advocacy, and public education and offer academic programs geared toward enhancing the generation and dissemination of public information to promote democracy, peace and security.

 Read More 


 






 



Message from the Director 
 Welcome guest, we are grateful that you have taken your time to visit our site. The Center for Media, Democracy, Peace and Security-Rongo University is and independent directorate that advances research and knowledge dissemination in media, democracy, peace and security focusing on hosting visiting fellows, training workshops and seminars, writing policy briefs, curriculum development, academic... 
 Read More 


 
 


 





 


 Our Partners 

African Center for Trans-formative and Inclusive Leadership, Kenyatta University. The Peacemaker Corps Foundation Kenya National Counterterrorism Center Ministry of Devolution Division of Civic Education and Capacity Building BuildUp Africa Peacebuilding Network PeaceTech Lab National Crime Research Center Search for Common Grounds Saferworlds King’s College London African Leadership Center, Nairobi. African Studies Center, Boston University, USA….





 


 Collaborators 

 Southern voices for peace-building. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, DC, USA The Center for Global Peace Journalism (CGPJ) The National Crime Research Center (NCRC) National Counterterrorism Center Laikipia University Center for Human Rights PeaceTech Lab, Washington DC Build Up, USA Center for global Peace, Journalism Park. Center for the advancement of scholarship, University... 




 


 Awards 

   PeaceTech Lab, Washington DC; Tracking Violence Research in Africa, In the Context of Covid-19 to inform policy interventions. A 30,000 USD project funded by Peace Tech Lab and Carnegie Corporation of New York in collaboration with Georgia Tech, and Digital 100, Netherlands Build Up, USA; Social Media Literacy Digital Peace building Pilot (Maskani) 5,000... 




 


 Our Programs 

MSc  in Media and Security Studies  This MSc Program is multidisciplinary, focusing on the role the media technologies in peace and security. The program recognises the rapid technological advancement and its centrality in conflict transformation through digital peacebuilding. It also provides insight into practical and policy approaches to new global security challenges and security governance…


 


 

Our Blog 








 27 


 Dec 





Media Narratives on Female Violent Extremism Open Up a Rich Field of Scholarly Inquiry 
There is an emerging trend of female violent extremism in Kenya, embodied by three women who botched an attack on the Mombasa police station on September 15, 2016. To say the least, the attack was publicly shocking, as Kenya has never witnessed anything like it before, in terms of women’s direct involvement in terrorism. This…

 Read More 


 








 23 


 Dec 





Local Media on the Right Direction in the War against Extremism in Kenya 
On September 11, 2016, three women bluffed their way into Mombasa’s police station before stabbing an officer, setting off a petrol bomb, and being shot dead in the ensuing firefight. One of the women was wearing a suicide vest that did not detonate. The attack, which has been widely covered in Kenyan media, serves as…

 Read More 


 








 18 


 Dec 





If It Bleeds It Shouldn’t Lead 
When terrorists attacked the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, Kenya, on September 21, 2013, the country was shocked and the media was confused. The Sunday edition of one of the leading mainstream newspapers, the Daily Nation, was caught up in the confusion by publishing bold headlines and gory close-up images of a woman in pain with a…

 Read More 


 








 15 


 Jun 





How Muslims Can Help Counter Violent Extremism in Kenya 
Kenya is in many ways on the frontlines of the “war on terror” in East Africa. The 2015 attack on Garissa University College and the 2013 attack on Westgate Mall are well-known, but the past six months have also seen smaller-scale attacks and the proliferation of arms through Somalia and along the Indian Ocean coast….

 Read More 


 
 


 






About Us The Center for Media, Democracy, Peace and security
is a media research center based within the precincts of Rongo University College anchored on the University’s vision of nurturing research, innovation and outreach initiatives for the betterment of communities both locally, nationally and internationally.
 

Our Partners 







 

RECENT ACTIVITIES 





 

Contact us The Director
Center for Media, Democracy, Peace and Security
P.O. Box 103-40404, RONGO
Office line: +254770308264
Cell: +254718878578
Email:
foduor@ruc.ac.ke or ogengafredrick@gmail.com

 









 







 


 Center for Media, Democracy, Peace and Security © 2017 




 Education Base by Acme Themes 























