https://www.rongovarsity.ac.ke/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/newsletter-2020.pdfA Newsletter from the o˜ce of the Vice Chancellor 1UNESCO Support For University Curriculum ReviewUNESCO pledged ˚nancial and techni-cal support to assist Rongo University review its curriculum for journalism, com-munication and media studies.˛is follows an appeal by the Vice Chan-cellor, Prof. Samuel Gudu to the UNESCO regional director Ms. Ann ˛eresse Ndong Jatta to help the university complete the ex-ercise which begun last year.˛e School of Information, Communi-cation and Media Studies embarked on a comprehensive review of all it™s curricula and the process is still on going.Once completed, the curriculum will in-corporate the required global modules for journalism education and training as well as media and information literacy which will enable our students to be roundly equipped as per UNESCO guidelines for journalism education.Ag. Dean School of Information, Commu-nication and Media Studies Dr. John Olu-och organized a joint high level workshop drawing members from the faculty, UNES-CO, Media Council of Kenya, as well as the Nairobi based Center for Media and Infor-mation Literacy on 20th and 21st February, 2020 at the university campus.Editorial Team:Editors:Dr. Jane KemboStephen OlooContent Contributors:Stephen Oloo - ContentPascal Ekesa - PhotographyMerab Shitemi - GraphicsA Newsletter from the o˜ce of the Vice ChancellorA Goldmine of Knowledge and InnovationIssue No. 5 June 2020Rongo University Selected as Centre of Excellence in Agriculture and Food Security in LREBRongo University has been selected by Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) as a Centre of Excellence in Agri-culture and Food Security. ˛is was communicated to the University by the Chair of LREB, H. E FCPA Wy-cli˝e Ambetsa Oparanya following the 5th LREB Summit which endorsed the collaboration between LREB and Universities/University Colleges. ˛e University realized this feat a˙er showcasing its strength in the area of agriculture during the 1st LREB Universities Workshop on Research Capacity in the Lake Region held in 2019.While acknowledging the approval of Rongo University as a Centre of Excellence, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Sam-uel Gudu thanked LREB member Counties and committed that the University through its team of experienced researchers would provide the required technologies and services to enhance agricultural productivity, food and nutrition security for improved livelihoods of the communities in the region. www.rongovarsity.ac.ke