https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-built-environment-design



 












Faculty of Built Environment & Design | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Built Environment & Design

















Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Bachelor of Arts in Design
Course Code- B05
Bachelor of Arts in Design  is a unique programme that offers students  the opportunity to specialize in one of the four areas of Graphic, Interior, Product, Fashion and Textiles and Illustration design hence it is attractive to the youth seeking to create employment through application of creative skills. Graduates from the specializations offered have gone on to engage in self-employment, the public sector and private sectors. In the public sectors the graduates are engaged by the government, parastatals, media/broadcasting and publishing, others are teachers in secondary schools. In private sector, the graduates join advertising firms, publishing and media houses, corporate companies such as Bata Shoes and architectural firms.
The programme has a mix of delivery strategies that includes lectures, professional interactions, technology supported learning and case studies. The students are provided with opportunities to compete with their peers both locally and internationally.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Interior Design
Course Code- B321
The University of Nairobi developed the BA in Interior Design to address the challenge of  youth seeking to create employment through their creative skills.  The programme was developed to address the rapidly expanding field of art and design  which responds to societal challenges by imparting skills and opening opportunities for self employment. The schools unique expertise in interior design lends itself to the development of unique,  aesthetic and pleasing furniture and interior spaces both public and private. There is high demand in this area as has been witnessed by fast growth in the building sector in Kenya.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Architecture/Bachelor of Architectural Studies
This is a Two Tier degree programme. The Bachelor of Architectural Studies takes 4 Years and with an additional 2 Years making a total of 6 years, one graduates with the Professional degree in Architecture known as Bachelor of Architecture. The six-year Bachelor of Architecture Course leading to the degree of B.Arch. as offered by the Department of Architecture is project based with architectural design as the central discipline. To this end, the programme structure is pivoted around the design studio, with lecture inputs in related and supporting subjects aided by Tutorials, Seminars, Laboratory and Workshop instructions as well as field exercises.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Quantity Surveying
Course code - B66
The Philosophy of the programme is guided by the need to connect and inspire graduates, to provide leadership and stewardship in quantity surveying practice and to give hope and faith to the construction industry. The programme aims at equipping the learners with specialized skills and techniques which enable them to interact with other professionals in the construction industry; to provide independent, objective, accurate and reliable capital/operating cost assessments for investment funding and project administration and control; to analyze investments and developments for the guidance of owners, financiers and contractors.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Construction Management
Course code- B76
The Bachelor of Construction Management is a four (4) year full-time degree programme.  It is a multi-faceted discipline derived from the four main areas of knowledge namely management, law, economics and technology. Its concept, principles and practice are applied with judgement to develop ways to utilize resources economically in the construction industry. Graduates of this degree programme will acquire knowledge in principles and practices that focus on the management activities and challenge that organizations face when they undertake construction projects. 
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Real Estate
Course code - B04
The Real Estate Bachelor’s degree program is designed to meet an ever increasing need and challenges in property valuation, management and development of real estate in response to the economic and social aspirations envisaged in Kenya vision 2030 blue print that seeks to transform Kenya into a middle income economy through efficient use, development and management of the land resource.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Planning
Course code - B65
The Bachelor of Arts (Planning) programme aims to train professional planners in urban and regional planning who are competent to offer planning services to the government, including local authorities, regional development agencies, private sector, non -governmental organizations, and other agencies. The course also caters for those who wish to pursue policy and research oriented careers in planning. In the second category, the programme caters for those who wish to pursue higher degrees in planning at masters and doctorate levels. The programme is designed to balance planning theory, methodology and techniques courses, with those intended to meet planning application needs. The Bachelor of Arts in Planning is a development management oriented programme, tailored to enable the graduate to serve the various sectors of society including the economic sectors.
Click here for more information




Master of Arts in Design
Course code: B51
From its inception in 1968 the University of Nairobi has been offering program leading to the Bachelor of Arts in Design (B.A. in Design). However, there is increasing demand in Kenya and challenges, which graduates of current B.A. in Design are unable to address with a sense of professional competence. The shortfall in meeting the challenges are attributable to the gaps which today’s higher education programs, at diploma or undergraduate levels, have not been able to address and meet. The gaps can be abridged through the Master of Arts Degree in Design (M.A. in Design). The M.A. Design emphasizes research to extend the boundary knowledge, to acquire professional skills and to address unmet needs. It strives to address local, national, regional and international challenges. It also lays emphasis on interdisciplinary collaboration, concerns for the disadvantaged and national development goals.
The course aims to: Enable students to accurately translate cultural, social economic and intellectual concerns into successful concepts and designs; Sharpen student’s ability to assess design challenges which are experienced locally, nationally.
Click here for more information
Master of Architecture
Course code - B52
The Department offers the two-year Postgraduate Master of Architecture Programme which comprises coursework, studio projects, examination and thesis. Guided by market surveys, needs and stakeholders’ assessments, this programme is tailored to nurture and inspire postgraduates to meet the needs of the Kenyan, East African region as well as the global built environment. The goal of this programme is the advancement of the discipline of Architecture to create a physical environment that enhances the quality of and harmony of human habitat.
Click here for more information
Master of Urban Management
Course code- W50
The Department  offers a two-year Postgraduate Master of Urban Management Programme. The programme comprises coursework, examination and research project. The course is intended to provide the requisite solid and balanced academic teaching (including theory and research methods) and professional and practical training relevant to urban management in Kenya and other countries in East Africa and the region.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Valuation and Property Management
Course code - B92
The programme is to produce highly motivated and innovative postgraduate students prepared to solve problems of a demanding real estate industry. The problems often faced in the market include but not limited to investment value and risk analysis, facilities management, property taxation and resettlement action plans for involuntary resettlement. As population grows the sector continuously grapples with the need not only for increased infrastructure and facilities but equally for their management for sustainability.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Planning
Course code - B63
The Master of Arts in Planning Programme aims to train a high caliber of professionally qualified personnel in Urban and Regional Planning. The programme provides planners with the requisite skills and specialized knowledge needed to address numerous challenges associated with rapid urbanization and resource use in Africa. The Department of Urban and Regional Planning has been a leading institution for training professional planners in the entire Eastern and Southern African region.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Construction Management
Course code - B53
The Master of Arts in Construction Management is a two (2) year part-time degree programme.  It is a multi-faceted discipline derived from the four main areas of knowledge namely management, law, economics and technology. Its concept, principles and practice are applied with judgement to develop ways to utilize resources economically in the construction industry and make it profitable for all players.
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy in Urban Management
Course code - B806
The programme’s overall aim is to advance theoretical as well as practical skills in urban management. As such, the objectives of the programme are: To advance knowledge on urbanization processes and urban development praxes; To induct critical analytical skills for the assessment of global urban development trends based on social, economic, spatial and governance point of view; To enhance technical and managerial capacities of urban governance in the global context; To promote successful formulation of urban reform programs within the decentralization and devolution framework and to enhance skills for successful implementation of urban programmes.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Architecture
Course code - B802
The Department offers the Three-year Doctor of Philosophy in Architecture Programme which comprises a written thesis or design portfolio. Guided by market surveys, needs and stakeholders’ assessments, this programme is tailored to nurture and inspire Doctoral graduates to meet the needs of the Kenyan, East African region as well as the global built environment.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Construction Management
Course code - B805
Kenya faces perennial challenges in the construction industry such as building collapse, lack of accountability, haphazard management of the construction process, lack of dedicated researchers to customize emerging construction management concepts and lack of research into the unique management challenges of the highly technical industry. The programme aims at equipping construction professionals with high level construction management research skills and enhancing Master of Arts in Construction Management graduates with higher-level research skills tailored to meet the needs of the Kenyan, East African as well as the global construction sector. 
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Planning
Course code - B803
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Design
Course code - B804
The world is faced with complex challenges such as climate change, loss of biodiversity, natural resource depletion and widening inequality. The African continent is particularly affected by these global challenges due to the continent’s slow pace of development. In Kenya, development challenges are a major concern for the government. Through its vision 2030, the Kenyan government aims to transform Kenya into a newly industrializing, middle-income country providing a high quality of life to all its citizens by 2030 in a clean and secure environment. To help achieve Kenya’s vision, and Africa’s vision for enriching livelihoods in general, designers need to explore new approaches to problem solving. The PhD programme in design engages with these kinds of complex, interconnected problems by equipping candidates with skills to envision a better future for all.
Click here for more information
 





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






