http://www.guidestar.org/organizations/65-1261685/african-library-project.aspx







African Library Project - GuideStar Profile
















































Search



Update Nonprofit Profile




Products




Blog




Support



Create account


Sign in



























×
Donate Now


















African Library Project



aka
African Library Project   |  
Mount Royal, NJ

  |  www.africanlibraryproject.org



Donate















Summary
Programs + Results
Financials
Operations










Mission
The African Library Project starts and improves small libraries in sub-Saharan Africa to promote literacy and education while educating Americans about Africa.





Ruling year
info

2008



ED

Robyn Speed


Main address
19 Mantua Road 
Mount Royal, NJ 08061 USA


Show more contact info






Contact Information

×





Contact
Email contact available with a Pro subscription

Fundraising Contact

Ms. Nirmala Singh Lalvani

Executive Director

Fundraising contact phone: (856) 292-5119

[email protected]

Physical Address
19 Mantua Road 
Mount Royal, NJ 08061 

Payment Address
19 Mantua Road 
Mount Royal, NJ 08061 

Donation Payable
Legal name of organization: African Library Project

EIN for payable organization: 65-1261685






Close








EIN
65-1261685



NTEE code
info

Libraries, Library Science (B70)









IRS filing requirement
This organization is required to file an IRS Form 990 or 990-EZ.



Sign in or create an account to view Form(s) 990 for 2019, 2018 and 2017. 
Register now



Communication





























Blog








Is this your nonprofit?
Login and update
Why claim your profile? Learn about benefits







Programs and results









What we aim to solve

SOURCE: Self-reported by organization


Many African children grow up without books, while U.S. bookshelves and landfills overflow with books no longer read.
Africa has the highest percentage of illiteracy in the world.
Books are the key to increasing literacy, and literacy is the #1 tool out of poverty.
Many African teachers teach reading, writing, math and English without even a single book to use as a resource.
Most the children in the Anglophone countries where ALP partners must take school exams in English in order to qualify to complete secondary school (high school) and to be eligible for college.



Our programs

SOURCE: Self-reported by organization


What are the organization's current programs, how do they measure success,
and who do the programs serve?






Small library development




Our core program is starting and improving small libraries in sub-Saharan Africa.  Our volunteer driven, grassroots organization coordinates book drives in the USA.  Each book drive collects 1,000 gently used children's books and raises about $500 to ship them, using our inexpensive container system.  In Africa, we partner with NGO and government organizations (e.g., Ministry of Education) who can support the development of 30-60 libraries year after year.


Population(s) Served
Children and youth
Adults











Where we work














External reviews










Photos









Many ALP libraries are located in rural areas, inaccessible by vehicles.








A school schedule that rotates classes through the library for regular reading times encourages a love of reading in students with budding literacy skills.








American kids can't imagine life without books and love to collect books to help African kids.












Videos







play_circle_outline




This Is How We Do It!






close























Goals & Strategy
 SOURCE: Self-reported by organization




Learn about the organization's key goals, strategies, capabilities, and progress.





Charting impact



Four powerful questions that require reflection about what really matters - results.








What is the organization aiming to accomplish?



The African Library Project changes lives book by book by starting libraries in rural Africa. Our grassroots approach mobilizes U.S. volunteers, young and old, to organize book drives and ship books to a partner library in Africa. Our method makes a concrete and personal difference for children on both continents








What are the organization's key strategies for making this happen?



1) The African schools and communities apply through a local partner organization to request a library. Each school or community is required to provide the space, bookshelves and staffing for the library, which encourages sustainability. They also specify the kinds of books needed for greatest impact.2) We match each approved African library project with a U.S.-based school or organization that agrees to collect gently used books and to raise the money to ship the books.3) We support both parties to create a fabulous library! On the U.S. side, we support book drive organizers with specific tools and methods to collect 1000 books and raise $500 per library project. On the Africa side, we provide a manual on how to set up and run a library in a developing country. Our partners provide training and follow up to evaluate each project and encourage good library practices, so that donated books reach those who need them most.








What are the organization's capabilities for doing this?



Our partners in Africa work with us to develop 30-60 new libraries every year in their region. They screen and select local library projects, clear the books through customs, and warehouse and distribute the books to their destination. They also train teacher-librarians, measure progress and ensure each library thrives over time. Our partners include non-profits and governmental organizations.Our volunteer book drive organizers collect 1000 books and raise about $500 in shipping funds for each library. They rally their local communities to donate books; sort the books to ensure appropriate fit; hold a book packing party to get the books ready for shipment; and mail the books to our U.S. warehouse..Our Board of Directors are hands-on volunteers who are deeply involved in planning, organizing and implementing our core activities.








What have they accomplished so far and what's next?



As of February 2019, we have:Completed 2,620 libraries in Zimbabwe, Zambia, Cameroon, Lesotho, Nigeria, Botswana, Swaziland, Malawi, Ghana, South Africa, Sierra Leone, and Kenya.Created 1,500+ partnerships with U.S. schools and other organizations.Donated over 2.6 million books.Organized major conferences to share best practices among our African Partners in 2008 (Botswana), 2009 (Lesotho), 2011 (Swaziland), 2013 (Malawi), 2015 (Ghana) and Botswana (2017).












Financials
African Library Project









lock


Unlock financial insights by subscribing to our monthly plan.


Subscribe





Unlock nonprofit financial insights that will help you make more informed decisions.
Try our monthly plan today.



Analyze a variety of pre-calculated financial metrics


Access beautifully interactive analysis and comparison tools


Compare nonprofit financials to similar organizations



Want to see how you can enhance your nonprofit research and unlock more insights? 

Learn more

about GuideStar Pro.







Operations

The people, governance practices, and partners that make the organization tick.






menu




Officers, directors, trustees, and key employees




Highest paid employees




Board of directors









lock


Connect with nonprofit leaders


Subscribe




Build relationships with key people who manage and lead nonprofit organizations with GuideStar Pro.
Try a low commitment monthly plan today.



Analyze a variety of pre-calculated financial metrics


Access beautifully interactive analysis and comparison tools


Compare nonprofit financials to similar organizations



Want to see how you can enhance your nonprofit research and unlock more insights?

Learn More

about GuideStar Pro.







lock


Connect with nonprofit leaders


Subscribe




Build relationships with key people who manage and lead nonprofit organizations with GuideStar Pro.
Try a low commitment monthly plan today.



Analyze a variety of pre-calculated financial metrics


Access beautifully interactive analysis and comparison tools


Compare nonprofit financials to similar organizations



Want to see how you can enhance your nonprofit research and unlock more insights?

Learn More

about GuideStar Pro.







African Library Project

Board of directors


as of
4/19/2021


SOURCE: Self-reported by organization








Board co-chair


Julie Freeman



Board co-chair


Karen
Levesque









Amy Jo Carson




Kathryn Goettl




Anu Kulkarni




Margaret Elvekrog




Marla Williams




Christina De Simone




Karen Levesque










Board leadership practices
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization


GuideStar worked with BoardSource, the national leader
in nonprofit board leadership and governance, to create this section.



Board orientation and education

Does the board conduct a formal orientation for new board members and require all board members to sign a written agreement regarding their roles, responsibilities, and expectations?
Yes



CEO oversight

Has the board conducted a formal, written assessment of the chief executive within the past year ? 
Yes



Ethics and transparency

Have the board and senior staff reviewed the conflict-of-interest policy and completed and signed disclosure statements in the past year?
Yes



Board composition

Does the board ensure an inclusive board member recruitment process that results in diversity of thought and leadership?
Yes



Board performance

Has the board conducted a formal, written self-assessment of its performance within the past three years?
No










Organizational demographics


SOURCE: Self-reported; last updated 04/19/2021


Who works and leads organizations that serve our diverse communities?
GuideStar partnered on this section with CHANGE Philanthropy and Equity in the Center.




Leadership



No data











































Race & ethnicity








Gender identity







 







Sexual orientation








Disability












Equity strategies

Last updated: 04/19/2021 

GuideStar partnered with Equity in the Center - an organization that works to shift mindsets,
practices, and systems to increase racial equity - to create this section.

Learn more




Data



We employ non-traditional ways of gathering feedback on programs and trainings, which may include interviews, roundtables, and external reviews with/by community stakeholders.






















You have profile views left.


Create account
or sign in
to unlock more profile views.


Create your free account










To continue searching:
To continue viewing profiles:
Sign up for free today to get more of the nonprofit info you need.
Already have a GuideStar Account? Sign in
Help us get you more of the nonprofit information you need, including:

More profile views
Access to an industry expert
Organization's full address
Up to three years of Forms 990
Revenue and expense data for the current fiscal year
CEO, Board Chair, and Board of Directors information
Additional tools and resources
And more...

Sign up for free
















Thanks for signing up!

An email has been sent to the address you provided. Click on the link in that email
to get more GuideStar Nonprofit Profile data today!


(Don't see an email in your inbox? Click here to resend it.)











×


Thanks.

A verification email has been sent to you. Please check your inbox in order to proceed.









GuideStar Pro Reports










Report successfully added to your cart!



Go To Cart



Want more data?
A GuideStar Pro report containing the following information is available for this organization:

 Email contact information
 Financial trends metrics for five most recent years 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2014*
 Financial statements for 2017, 2016, 2015, 2013, 2012
 Letter of Determination


Officer and/or Employee data for 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2014



Contractor and/or Paid Preparer data for 2019, 2018, 2017



Board of Directors data for 2021




*with the ability to download the data for 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2014


Download it now for $125.

Sample Report
Buy it nowReport Added to Cart

Need the ability to download nonprofit data and more advanced search options?

Consider a Pro Search subscription.



This information is only available for subscribers and in Premium reports.




Close














