http://sanres.rongovarsity.ac.ke





School of Sanres










































Skip to content







 





Main Menu




Home
About Us
AcademicsMenu Toggle

Diploma
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Academic Staff


DepartmentsMenu Toggle

Dept of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness
Dept of Agronomy and Environmental Sciences


ResearchMenu Toggle

Publications
Thesis
Ongoing Research


News
Main Site
 

 
 
























Short storyThere stood a little lighthouse in the middle of the sea on top of the rocks.Read moreLifeHAckThe Best Office Furniture You've Probably Never Heard OfRead moreNatureWhy autumn leaves turn red? It's not easy being red!Read more 





 
















 





 




Prof. Peter Oloo Kisinyo 




Dean, School of Sanres 










Dean's Message 




School Vision: A world class-technology driven School in learning and practiceSchool Mission: To provide quality and innovative higher education through teaching, research and community serviceSchool of Agriculture Natural Resources and Environmental Studies (SANRES) is situated at Main Campus, Rongo University. The School has two Departments: i) Agronomy and Environmental Science and ii) Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness. It has competent academic and administrative staff with a wealth of experience in teaching, research and community service. The school has teaching farms and well equipped laboratories to support teaching, research and community service. We train graduates that will ensure food security also captured in the Big ‘4’ Agenda which is consistent with the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) No. 1 (No poverty) and 2 (Zero Hunger).  According to Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Implementation Framework-KCSAIF (2018-2027), the agricultural sector contributes approximately 25% to Kenya’s gross domestic product (GDP) directly and another 27% indirectly, where cereals constitute programs that are in line with Kenya Vision 2030 and its third Medium Term Plan in which agriculture has identified as one of the key sectors to deliver sustainable economic growth rate and the bulk in volume and area of production. The school trains innovative, skilled and competent graduates ready for employment, research and create jobs while taking into consideration sustainable utilization of resources 





































 




Undergraduate Studies 




We offer a quality teaching and experience to our undergraduate students. 











 




Postgraduate Masters 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our graduate students. 











 




Doctorate studies 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our doctorate students. 































Current News & Events 



SANRES Online Orientation of Students 




 




Crop Trust Sorghum Project Updates January 2021
Coping with climate change effects on sorghum productivity in western Kenya
 




Climate change threatens to significantly increase the number of people at risk of food insecurity all over the world. It has led to increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as droughts, floods, rising sea levels; salinization of water supplies and agricultural lands; changes in rainfall patterns; and decline in water quality and availability in arid and semi-arid regions, with expected reduction in agricultural productivity, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. The project held a stakeholder analysis workshop in Migori County in January 2021 in order to obtain shared understanding on the effects of climate change on sorghum production in western Kenya and discuss some coping strategies for small holder farmers in this region. From the discussions with farmers it was evident that majority of farmers have understood the concept of climate change and have experienced its effects in one way or another. Some of the evidences they mentioned within their locality included; change in rainfall amount and pattern.  Erratic rainfall has led to disruption of their two cropping seasons thus making it difficult for optimum sorghum production in the two seasons. It has also led to late planting making the sorghum crop to be more susceptible to attacks by pests like shoofly and Fall armyworm which cause severe losses to the crop.  Read More.. 











 











 


















ENHANCING THE POTENTIAL OF RICEBEAN AS A FOOD SECURITY CROP FOR MITIGATING AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE IN KENYA 




Project objecive(s) The overall objective is to popularize rice bean by identifying and measuring the diversity within the range of germplasm available and differentiating it for suitability to the cropping systems of the regions for study. Farmer-preferred varieties will be matched to diverse seasons, environments and markets, using a combination of genetic, agronomic, and socio-economic approaches and using participatory varietal selection principles to identify genotypes and parents for future crop improvement (breeding) programs.The project expects to integrate ricebean into sorghum and maize-based cropping systems in kenya.Specific objectives are;To determine status of ricebean value chain.To determine and conserve ricebean biodiversity.To validate, promote appropriate agronomic practices and IPM for ricebean production.To determine the nutritive value of rice bean and promote its products and value added products.To build capacity of ricebean value chain stakeholders. 











 











 











 


















Stakeholders Consultative Meeting 











 













Title of Research: Adapting climate smart technologies along the sorghum value chain to enhance productivity, utilization and improved livelihoodsProject sum: Ksh. 22,000,000Area of implementation: West Pokot, Laikipia and Isiolo  CountiesGoal: Contribute to increased sorghum productivity, utilization and improved livelihoods in selected arid and semi-arid lands of Kenya.ObjectivesTo validate and promote suitable sorghum varieties for food, fodder and brewing To validate and promote appropriate sorghum production technologies for soil management, water conservation,  good agriculture practices and striga weed managementTo establish and promote sustainable market linkages.To promote sorghum value addition and product diversification at farm level for food, fodder and improved livelihoods 


















Ricebean Project​ 










 











On 18th July, 2020 the School launched Ricebean Project Kaimosi University College. Professor Peter Oloo Kisinyo attended the project launch.Project Launch, from left: 1) Dr. Florence Odiwuori and 2) Prof. Peter KisinyoTitle of Research: Enhancing the Potential of Ricebean as a Food Security Crop for Mitigating Against Climate Change in KenyaProject sum: Ksh. 19,800,000Area of implementation: Migori, Siaya and Siaya CountiesOverall Objective: To popularise rice bean by identifying and measuring the diversity within the range of germplasm available and differentiating it for suitability to the cropping systems of the regions for study. Farmer-preferred varieties will be matched to diverse seasons, environments and markets, using a combination of genetic, agronomic, and socio-economic approaches and using participatory varietal selection principles to identify genotypes and parents for future crop improvement (breedinAg) programs. The project expects to integrate ricebean into sorghum and maize-based cropping systems in Kenya.Specific objective are;To determine status of ricebean value chainTo determine and conserve ricebean biodiversityTo validate,  promote appropriate agronomic practices and IPM for ricebean productionTo determine the nutritive value of rice bean and promote its products and value added productsTo build capacity of ricebean value chain stakeholders 























school of 



sanres 




Goldmine of Knowlege and Innovation 
















Be Part of us



















Our alumni



















Enquires
































Social Media 



Stay Connected 




Dean School of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environmental Studies
Rongo University,
P.O. Box 103-40404, RONGO

Email: dean-agriculture@rongovarsity.ac.ke 















Twitter





Facebook





Youtube





Instagram


























QUICK STATS 












0


Departments














1


Programmess














1


Lecturers






















 







						Copyright © 2022 School of Sanres | Powered by Astra 


























