https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-health-sciences



 












Faculty of Health Sciences | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Health Sciences


















Diploma Programmes
Postgraduate Diploma Programmes
Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes
Fellowship Programmes




Diploma in Renal Nursing
Course code - H45





Postgraduate Diploma In Bio-Medical Research Methodology
Course code - W61
Holders of bachelors degree in Medicine and Surgery, Veterinary Medicine, Dental Sciences, Nursing Sciences and Pharmacy; holders of bachelors degree lower second class honours in Biological and Social Sciences; holders of a pass degree in the areas specified in (2) above with at least two years of research / work experience qualify for this programme.
Click here for more information





Bachelor of Dental Surgery
Course code - V28
The University of Nairobi seeks to meet the needs of oral health services in the country and beyond through the Bachelor of Dental Surgery degree programme.The programme is abreast with the advancement in dental knowledge and the demand for leadership skills. UoN has incorporated leadership and management and information technology in the course content.  A lot of  emphasis has been placed on the clinical and/or practical examination in the evaluation process. The curriculum runs for four academic years of 44 weeks each.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBCHB)
Course code - H31
The Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery curriculum imparts knowledge, clinical skills and competencies necessary in holistic medical practitioner. Students are exposed current technologies and improved teaching methods facilitating consolidation of knowledge, involvement in critical thinking and research that enables them to practice evidence based medicine.Graduates are expected to be self-motivated, disciplined and ethical doctors well versed with holistic approach to health care management. The course is fulltime and extended over six academic years.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science & Technology 
Course Code- H38
The Medical Laboratory Science and Technology course is designed to provide scientific basis for training skilled personnel in laboratory science based techniques. Graduates would perform laboratory tests to inform decision making in the area of biomedical laboratory sciences. Members of this profession will play pivotal role in teaching research and health care. In this area they will act as catalysts for industrial development .
Click here for more information 
Bachelor of Science (BSC) in Medical Physiology
Course code - H303
Students pursuing Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery and Bachelor of Pharmacy and have completed and passed all the courses of the first and second year have the option of pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Medical Physiology.
The course will last one academic year. The course will be on full time basis extending for three terms. It will consist of discussion classes, tutorials and practical sessions, with special reference to the development of skills related to conducting original investigations, the analysis of data and preparation of papers containing original observations. Students will be required to present at least one comprehensive review paper per term. Students will be required to undertake extensive guided reading. The candidates will be expected to identify a specific research project and write a short dissertation.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science (Bsc) In Human Anatomy (intercalated)
Course code - H302
Students pursuing a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery and have completed and passed all the courses of the first and second year have the option of pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Human Anatomy.
Successful applicants will be selected for admission to the Bachelor of Science in Human Anatomy on the advice of the Board of the Faculty of Medicine. Successful applicants will be required to give an undertaking that, upon completion of the course they will continue with their studies for the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Degree.
Through this degree programme, the students will be exposed to modern research methods that will enable them enhance their research skills, building upon their work of the first and second year courses.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Nursing 
Course Code-  H32
The programme prepares graduates who can lead a productive life as individuals and professional persons. They should demonstrate an educational basis upon which post-graduate studies for further specialization as clinician, educator, administrator or researcher in nursing may be built. The graduates of this programme should be eligible for post-graduate work at any recognized University. They should also be registrable with the Nursing Council of Kenya and  be capable of functioning universally.
Click here for more information 
Bachelor of Pharmacy
Course code - U29
Greater clinical orientation, leadership and management roles for pharmacists in addition to international technological advances in pharmaceutical industrial sector and Information Technology driven delivery of pharmaceutical services. In recognition of this, there is a need to train graduates who can serve in a growth throughout their professional practice as they are engaged nationally, regionally and internationally.
Click here for more information





Master of Dental Surgery in Paediatric Dentistry
Course code - V603
Pediatric Dentistry programme provides for the study of the child growth and development, oral and systemic diseases, and facilitates access to the latest operative techniques required to provide primary and comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health care, while equipping the learner with advanced clinical and research knowledge and skills to meet these demands. The Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) Degree in Pediatric Dentistry is essential for training specialized manpower for the country so as to improve the Pediatric Dental Specialist: patient ratio which currently stands at 1:1.5 million pediatric patients.
Click here for more information
Master of Dental Surgery in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Course code: - V602
The University is committed to providing a postgraduate specialist training program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (OMFS) which is of an international standard and produces specialist practitioners with a high level of knowledge and advanced clinical skills and attitudes in the specialty in order to provide the best evidence-based patient care. Since 2011 the department has strived to fulfill this commitment with significant success. It has produced a total of 20 specialists who are now serving in the public and private health institutions within the country and the region. However, despite this success the department feels that the program is due for review and up-scaling in order to remain relevant.
The broad objectives of the training programme are to ensure that all candidates:  Are highly competent practitioners in OMFS; Have the requisite knowledge, skills and professional attitudes for successful independent practice and; Have the necessary attitudes and attributes to strive for continual review and improvement of their practice. These attributes are essential to providing the highest possible quality of service to meet the relevant healthcare needs of the communities they serve
Click here for more information
Master of Dental Surgery in Periodontology
Course code: - V604
Periodontology is the specialty in dentistry which deals with the diseases of the supporting structures of the teeth. These diseases comprise a group of inflammatory conditions of the supporting tissues of the teeth and are caused by bacterial biofilm. Periodontal diseases are thus infectious in nature and are affected and modified by environmental, physical, social and host stresses. Periodontal disease is the most common oral disease affecting mankind.
The course aims to enable learners to treat all forms of periodontal disease on a biologically rational basis; Train specialists who will be competent in all theoretical and practical skills pertinent to the specialty; Equip students with current knowledge/skills from the biomedical sciences and relate the information to diagnosing, treating and maintaining patients with advanced periodontal diseases; Equip students with skills to conduct literature searches and critically evaluate published data and thus contribute to the available research knowledge in the field of dentistry by carrying out and publishing an original research project; Impart enhanced practical skills with improved self-appraisal and awareness; Enhance the multidisciplinary approach towards the management of periodontal cases; Understand the place of oral health care in the wider medical, psychological and social context
Click here for more information
Master of Dental Surgery in Prosthodontics
Course code: - V601
The discipline of Prosthodontics deals with the provision and maintenance of prostheses and/or restoration of teeth to function, aesthetic harmony and comfort utilizing a variety of techniques both direct and indirect while using the appropriate dental materials. The discipline also encompasses patients’ evaluation, diagnosis and treatment planning which includes prevention and disease control as well as the requirement of long-term maintenance of restored dentition. The purpose therefore of MDS Prosthodontic shall be to produce high caliber graduates who are capable of maintaining the practice of Prosthodontics in scientific research and in clinical practice.
The course aims to: provide the MDS Prosthodontics candidates with comprehensive knowledge and skills in the practice of Prosthodontics; Provide sound experience in management of patients requiring oral rehabilitation with restorations, fixed and/or removable prostheses;  Enhance the fortification of the interdisciplinary management of Prosthodontics and other dental disciplines. ; Train the MDS Prosthodontics graduates in research skills thus enabling them to undertake independent and original research project.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Medical Physiology
Course code - H550
Master of Science in Human Anatomy
Course code - H548
The philosophy of the Department of Human Anatomy in developing this programme is guided by the need to connect with and inspire health professionals to provide leadership and stewardship in the anatomical sciences to enhance evidence-based clinical practice. We are also cognizant of the need to train anatomy educators with a strong grounding in the subject. This programme is offered to clinicians and educators so that they can have a deeper understanding of the structure of the human body, and acquire application skills for integration of a high level of knowledge and understanding of the human body to clinical practice and the teaching of anatomy at undergraduate and postgraduate level. The programme purposes to give hope and faith to students that they can excel in their clinical, academic and research areas with deep passion, moral responsibility and a sense of patriotism as they serve the larger Kenyan population with evidence-based practices.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Internal Medicine
Course code: H558
Since the introduction of training in master of medicine postgraduate programme (MMed- Internal Medicine) in 1973, new concepts and challenges have emerged in medicine. The increasing awareness of both infectious and non-infectious diseases requires physicians who are both competent in interventions, to prevent and reduce the new threats to health at the community level, and skilled in advocacy, to influence health policies
This course aims to equip the candidate with the ability to:  Demonstrate knowledge and skills in the management of medical conditions; Demonstrate competency in the diagnostic and therapeutic skills for ethical and effective patient care through application of relevant information to clinical practice; Deliver highest quality care with integrity, honesty and compassion while exhibiting appropriate personal and interpersonal professional behavior; Contribute to development of new knowledge through high-quality research, develop and implement a strategy for self-learning, and facilitate learning of others
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Diagnostic Radiology
Course code - H560
The Masters in Medicine degree course in Diagnostic Radiology is intended to provide in-depth clinical academic knowledge and impart practical skills required by the imaging specialist. It provides comprehensive coverage of the physical principles of medical imaging, the anatomical basis of imaging, the techniques employed to generate medical images, the interpretation of images based on clinical information and radiation protection.
This course aims to: equips the student with the practical skills to perform imaging and interventional procedures, interpret images and write competent reports; Equip the student with adequate knowledge on the physical principles of diagnostic imaging; Impart adequate knowledge to the trainee on the safe usage of ionizing and non-ionizing radiations used in medical imaging; Equip the student with adequate skills in the techniques of performing imaging and interventional procedures, the interpretation of images in the background of sound clinical and pathological changes associated with disease and the presentation of reports; Equip the student with the skills and ability to carry out research in Diagnostic Imaging; Prepare the student to adequately manage Diagnostic Imaging Departments.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Radiation Oncology
Course code- H586
Radiation Oncology is that branch of clinical medicine that specializes in the diagnosis and management of cancer using ionizing radiation. The discipline also uses ionizing radiation to treat other radiosensitive diseases and conditions. The Master of Medicine in Radiation Oncology programme will achieve internationally recognized scholarly and professional excellence in radiation oncology education and training through creation, preservation, integration, transmission and utilization of acquired knowledge and skills.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Clinical Cytology
Course code – H574
The University of Nairobi is the only institution in the region that offers the Master of Science in Clinical Cytology programme. The program has a major emphasis on practicals, mainly in applied Cytotechnology, molecular techniques and applied Cytomorphology.  The programme equips the learners with skills, knowledge and ability to offer clinical cytology services, As well as Equip the learners with skills in undertaking research and training in cytopathology and capacity to translate research into policy and practice.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Human Pathology
Course code: H566
The goal of the M.Med in human pathology Programme is to produce a competent and professional pathologist who is able to: Perform medical autopsies to contribute to medical knowledge, quality assurance and medical education, Perform forensic autopsies to serve society and contribute to public protection, Participate in medical education, Conduct and supervise research in pathology and Provide diagnostic histopathologists and cytological services.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Clinical Chemistry
Course code – H584
The course aims to train medical and science graduates in the principles and practice of Clinical Chemistry. This will therefore develop individuals who are highly competent in the tools for diagnosing of diseases and thereby assist clinicians in effective diagnosis, treatment and follow up of patients. Students who undertake this course will be trained on how offer specialized Clinical Chemistry diagnostic laboratory services and effectively manage laboratory personnel, equipment and reagents, and implant quality assurance programs relevant to clinical chemistry.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Medical Microbiology
Course code – H549
The Master of Science degree in Medical Microbiology incorporates training in various methods of diagnosis and control of these diseases. Apart from focusing on understanding the biology, pathology, immunology, molecular biology, diagnosis, control and management of these diseases, the course prepares candidates for higher doctorate degrees in the field of microbiology.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Tropical and Infectious Diseases
Course code - W64
The Masters in Tropical and Infectious Diseases is designed to build core Infectious Disease Control teams consisting of physicians, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, epidemiologists and biologists; capable of predicting disease outbreak, carrying out disease surveillance and controlling disease epidemics. The established core teams will be expected to work closely with the relevant ministries, non-governmental and international organizations to combat and control diseases. The MSc. TID covers a minimum of four (4) semesters and a maximum of twelve (12) semesters of fifteen (15) weeks each. A candidate is required to take minimum of three (3) course units and a maximum of five (5) course units in a semester.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Medical Statistics
Course code - W62
The MSc. in Medical Statistics course aims at training personnel to serve in the fields of national health systems, the pharmaceutical industry, and in research which is important to the development of a country. The course equips such personnel with the relevant knowledge of theoretical and practical aspects of statistics and their applications in health research.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Course code: H556
The Master of Medicine in Obstetrics and Gynecology curriculum was revised in 2014.The revised curriculum will also instill leadership qualities to the specialists for effective service delivery in alignment with the Millennium Development Goals and attainment of Vision 2030 of Kenya.
This course aims to: Impart in learners, knowledge, clinical skills, and competencies relevant to reproductive health care; Equip the learners with requisite discipline, professional qualities, etiquette and ethics necessary for safe reproductive health practice; Equip in the learners academic abilities for self-learning, critical thinking, research abilities and ability to translate research into practice and policy; Equip the learners with skills to provide leadership and governance in provision of reproductive health services.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Pediatrics and Child Health
Course code - H546
The Master of Medicine in Pediatrics and Child Health degree programme was launched in 1973 prompted by the need to have locally trained specialists in the field equipped with knowledge and critical clinical skills relevant to local health problems provide leadership of curative and preventive services and be involved in training and research.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Psychiatry (Mmed. Psych.)
Course code - H544
The Master of Medicine degree course in Psychiatry is intended to train medically qualified doctors to master the practice of diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental illness as well as giving them a sound scientific foundation to enable them to teach students (undergraduate and post graduate), and carry out original research. The emphasis in this course is on clinical and practical work and most of the teaching will be by “bed side” teaching in the wards during ward rounds and clinical case conference.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Clinical Psychology 
Course code – H547
The Master of Science in Clinical Psychology is a 2 year programme is designed to provide specialized training to mental health professionals. This course provides learners with solid knowledge and essentials skills and competencies in Clinical Psychology -theoretical and practical and research. 
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Neurosurgery 
Course code: - H567
The Master of Medicine in Neurosurgery program aims at enhancing the practice of Neurosurgery throughout Kenya and the East, Central and Southern African region by improving on patient management at the primary care level. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends at least one Neurosurgeon for every 200,000 people. Kenya has a ratio of one neurosurgeon for every five million people.
This course aims to: Train a neurosurgeon with satisfactory knowledge, clinical ability and surgical skills of management of surgical diseases of the nervous system; Train a neurosurgeon with knowledge of principles of General Surgery necessary in the practice of neurosurgery and common surgical emergencies.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery
Course code: H575
Kenya’s specialized surgical care needs have increased greatly over the years, and continue to do so. The general doctor-population ratio in Kenya is 1:7100 compared to the recommended World Health Organization figure of 1:600. For the specialty of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery, the ratio is 1:3500,000.
This course aims to produce Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons with the requisite skills and competence in the overall care of the patient with general thoracic, cardiac and/or peripheral vascular problems, and to produce Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons able to meet the requirement of the World Health Organization programme of Integrated Management for Essential and Emergency Surgical Care.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Paediatric Surgery
Course code: H581
Annual fees – Kshs. 648,000 (August/September 2021/2022 Academic Year intake)
Kenya is a developing country with scarce financial and human resources. Currently the national pediatric surgeon to population ratio of 1:4000,000 falls far below the internationally recommended ratio of 1:300,000. Likewise, Sections 42, 43 and 53 of the Constitution of Kenya state the right of every Kenyan child to health care. Thus the shortage of pediatric surgeons is a human resource gap that needs to be urgently addressed
This course aims to Train a surgeon with knowledge, requisite skills and competencies in management of: Pediatric surgical conditions; Emergency surgical conditions 2. Be able to translate research findings into clinical practice
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
Course code: H582
Plastic Reconstructive and surgery deals with replacement of lost body tissues, deformities resulting from trauma, radical surgery, inborn malformations and improvement of physical cosmetic appearance of an individual. Currently there is one plastic surgeon to six million Kenyans while the recommendation WHO ratios 1:100,000.
This course aims to Train Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons with knowledge, requisite skills and competencies in; management of emergency surgical conditions, management of disease conditions requiring plastic and reconstructive surgery and ability to translate research findings to clinical practice.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Ear, Nose and Throat Surgery
Course code - H559
Master of Medicine in Urology
Course code: H583
Urology is a surgical specialty focusing on the urinary tracts, including the reproductive system of males. The urologist is a specialist, trained to diagnose, treat, and manage patients with urological disorders. Of the top 20 causes of deaths in Kenya, urological diseases are amongst the most common.
This course aims to; To equip learners with knowledge, clinical skills and competencies relevant to urological care; Requisite discipline, professional qualities, etiquette and ethics necessary for safe urological practice; Skills in leadership and governance in urological practice; Ability for self-learning, critical thinking, research skills and translation of research findings into practice and policy.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in General Surgery
Course code: H557
Public medical service providers currently demand that Surgeons of all subspecialties should have basic knowledge and skills to treat any emergency lifesaving surgical conditions before onward referral to the relevant subspecialty The current program for MMed Surgery of the University of Nairobi, which was compiled in 1972 has been revised to bring it in line with these global developments. This will benefit our clients, and make us competitive internationally.
This course aims to produce a general surgeon with sufficient knowledge and skills in the basic foundations of surgery, to produce a general surgeon with sufficient knowledge and skills in management of general surgical diseases.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Ophthalmology
Course code - H545
The design of the Master of Medicine in Ophthalmology curriculum is student centered and problem based.  The courses are as much as possible integrated, community oriented and systematically arranged. The duration of the Master of Medicine in Ophthalmology course is three years. The structure of this curriculum is based on three levels of knowledge, which spiral from one to the other:
The first level of basic sciences (e.g. anatomy, physiology, optics, pharmacology, pathology and microbiology related to the eye) is required for understanding the later courses in the programme.
The next level is applied pathology, pharmacology, microbiology, community eye health and research methodology which lead to the level of clinical ophthalmology. This final level comprises mostly surgical and clinical courses during which the practical aspects of the programme are undertaken to bring out the skills required.  This structure provides for a systematic integration of theory and practice. It should be noted that levels referred to are levels of knowledge and do not necessarily correspond to a particular term or academic year of study. 
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Anaesthesia
Course code: H555
Anesthesia is an essential service in modern medical practice and health delivery systems all over the world. It is one of the most important scientific discoveries in recent times and has revolutionized the practice of surgery and related subjects
This programme aims to train students in all aspects of a safe practice of Anesthesia, train anesthesiologists with adequate knowledge, skills and professional attitudes essential for safe practice of anesthesiology, critical care medicine and pain management, and to train anesthesiologists with adequate knowledge in clinical problems encountered in surgery and medicine.
Click here for more information
Master of Medicine in Orthopaedic Surgery
Course code: H569
Orthopedic surgery is the surgical specialty for the diagnosis and treatment of injuries, diseases, and congenital deformities of the musculoskeletal system. 
This course aims to: To equip doctors with comprehensive knowledge of Orthopedics and trauma surgery; To equip doctors with adequate knowledge and skills for teaching, carrying out research and delivering of orthopedic and trauma services; To develop capacity of the doctor, for generating, disseminating, imparting and preserving knowledge and skills in orthopedics and Trauma surgery; To produce a specialist doctor capable of promoting preventive and curative orthopedic and Trauma services.
Click here for more information
Master of Public Health 
Course code – H57
The Master of Public Health is a 2 year programme targeting students who want to specialize in the area of Public health. The main objective of this course is to offer a multi-disciplinary postgraduate course in order to train experts capable of meeting the emerging challenges in the field of public health. The course admits students with a background in medical, dental, veterinary, nursing and allied sciences as well as holders of a first degree in a discipline closely related to public health and medicine degree in environmental health, sociology, nutrition, demography, statistics, economics, planning, administration and anthropology, education and communication.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Nursing 
Course code – H554
The programme is designed to train nurses with proper nursing skills in various specializations within the nursing profession.  These major areas requiring specialized training include Obstetric Nursing/Midwifery, Medical- Surgical Nursing, Nursing Education, Paediatric Nursing, Nursing administration, Mental Health and Psychiatric Nursing, Community Health Nursing, Geriatric Nursing, Oncology Nursing and Oral Care/Dental Nursing among others.  It is hoped that through training, there will be improved supply of skilled manpower in the field of Nursing. The main objectives of this programme is to; Develop personnel specialized in clinical areas of Nursing, Equip students with skills and ability to teach and carry out research in Nursing and Equip students with managerial and administrative skills to enable them undertake professional leadership positions in their areas of specialization.
Click here for more information
 
Master of Pharmacy in Pharmaceutical Analysis
Course code - U59
The Master of pharmacy degree course in Pharmaceutical Analysis is intended to train highly qualified analysts involved in both quality assurance and quality control of pharmaceuticals and related substances. On completion of the course, the students will be expensed to be competent in modern analytical techniques, monitoring of pharmaceutical and related manufacturing processes and the setting up and running of a quality control laboratory. The analyst will obtain sound scientific foundation to qualify them for academic appointments and carry out original research.
Click here for more information
Master of Pharmacy in Industrial Pharmacy
Course code - U53
Master of Pharmacy in Clinical Pharmacy
Course code - U590
Pharmacy services in recent years have expanded significantly beyond drug preparation and distribution. These evolutionary changes are expressed as greater involvement by pharmacists in drug related decision making and patient care activities. The World Health Organization through the concept of pharmaceutical care sees a pharmacist as an integral member of the patient care team. The discipline of Clinical pharmacy is responsible for ensuring the safe, appropriate, and cost-effective use of drugs in patients, through the application of specialized skills and knowledge. The Master of Pharmacy in Clinical Pharmacy programme aims at instilling knowledge and skills that will enhance the provision of pharmaceutical care at patient level. 
Click here for more information
Master of Pharmacy in Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance
Cours code - U51
Though medications play a critical role in elevating disease, they are the most common source of iatrogenic disorders.  Pharmacovigilance, also known as Drug Safety, is the science of continuous post-marketing surveillance, monitoring and evaluation of pharmaceutical risks and benefits.  In the pre-marketing phase and in drug regulatory agencies, drug safety experts are charged with evaluation of medication safety and effectiveness data.  Pharmacoepidemiology is the study of the patterns and determinants of drug use and outcomes in human populations. It borrows from both clinical pharmacology and epidemiology.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Molecular Pharmacology
Course code - U52
The program will be offered on full time basis.  The duration of the program will be a minimum of four (4) semesters of 15 weeks each equivalent to two academic years and a maximum of eight (8) semesters equivalent to four academic years. An academic year shall consist of two semesters of 15 weeks each. The course shall be in two parts: Part I consisting of course work and Part II devoted to research leading to a thesis.
Click here for more information





Doctor of Philosophy in Public Health 
Course code: H806
The programme aims at producing specialists who will be able to provide leadership in community health at all levels. The emphasis is re-orientation from hospital clinical practice to community health practice, with special emphasis on the community. Graduates from this programme are expected to have acquired competence in the following; Academic health research, training and mentorship,Policy analysis and health services management,Evaluation of health projects and programmes,Provide strategic advisory services in health,Peer review and publication.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing 
Course code: H807
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutics
Course code - U802
Doctor of Philosophy in Drug Discovery and Development
Course code -U805
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmacognosy and Complementary Medicine
Course code - U803
Doctor of Philosophy in Molecular Pharmacology
Course code -U807
Doctor of Philosophy in Dental Surgery
Course code - V91
Click here for more information
Doctor of Medicine
Course code – H90
The program offers the learner with advanced clinical and academic training, making the learner be fully prepared for challenges in the increasingly diverse medical career. 
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Medicine
Course code - H80
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Anatomy
Course code - H804
The overall goal of the programme is to equip the grandaunts with knowledge, attitudes, skills and competencies that are necessary for a research scientist in specific thematic areas of human anatomy. The gradualness are expected to appraise scientific developments in the field of Human Anatomy for translational research, design research in specific thematic areas of anatomical sciences and translational research which address the science of health needs, practice dissemination of anatomical sciences to relevant audiences and demonstrate leadership in specific thematic areas of anatomical sciences and translational research.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Medical Physiology
Course code - H802
Doctor of Philosophy in Medical Microbiology
Course code: H810
The PhD Medical Microbiology program gears towards independence in scientific and critical thinking with an emphasis on quality research and life-long learning to bring the student to a higher level of competence in Medical Microbiology with special expertise in an area chosen for the thesis. The main aim of the programme is to produce high-quality graduates with significant communication, leadership, intellectual skills backed by ethics and social responsibility. This emphasizes on the aspect of integrating knowledge and skills acquired from medical/biological sciences and related technologies.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Tropical and Infectious Diseases
Course code - W80
A holder of a Bachelor's and Master's degree from an institution recognized by the University of Nairobi Senate The applicant must be able to produce evidence, to the satisfaction of Senate, of his adequate background in the discipline and capacity to carry out original research. In addition to producing evidence of eligibility for registration, candidates for the Doctor of Philosophy degree may be required to appear for interview by the Faculty/Institute/School/Centre concerned to determine their suitability for registration. On application a candidate shall in the first instance submit the application form and a draft proposal of about 15 pages for consideration by the Faculty/Institute/School/Centre Board concerned.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Medical Statistics
Course code - W83
A holder of a Bachelor's and Master's degree from an institution recognized by the University of Nairobi Senate. The applicant must be able to produce evidence, to the satisfaction of Senate, of his adequate background in the discipline and capacity to carry out original research. In addition to producing evidence of eligibility for registration, candidates for the Doctor of Philosophy degree may be required to appear for interview by the Faculty/Institute/School/Centre concerned to determine their suitability for registration.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Virology
Course code- H82
The applicants for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree MUST have a Master of Science, Master of Medicine or Master of Public Health from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities.  A Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery or Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Veterinary from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities are mandatory.  In addition, the applicants MUST submit a research proposal on a subject connected with medical science at a clinical or pre-clinical level.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Immunology
Course code: H83
The objective of this programme is to develop researchers that have a solid foundation in immunology. The applicants for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree MUST have a Master of Science, Master of Medicine or Master of Public Health from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities.  A Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery or Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Veterinary from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities are mandatory.  In addition, the applicants MUST submit a research proposal on a subject connected with medical science at a clinical or pre-clinical level.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Immunology
Course code - H83
The applicants for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree MUST have a Master of Science, Master of Medicine or Master of Public Health from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities.  A Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery or Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Veterinary from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities are mandatory.  In addition, the applicants MUST submit a research proposal on a subject connected with medical science at a clinical or pre-clinical level.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Clinical Research 
Course code: H85
Knowledge translation involves three important processes of research, policy development and implementation.  UoN has been availing data emanating from the research projects and programmes and will continue doing so to policy makers for policy development, changes and implementation.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Implementation Science 
Course code: H88
The applicants for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree MUST have a Master of Science, Master of Medicine or Master of Public Health from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities.  A Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery or Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Veterinary from the University of Nairobi or equivalent qualifications from recognized Universities are mandatory.  In addition, the applicants MUST submit a research proposal on a subject connected with medical science at a clinical or pre-clinical level.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Clinical Psychology
Course code - H805





Fellowship in Medical Oncology Training Programme
Course code: H113
The learner will be equipped with competencies to recognise cancer, make prompt diagnosis and offer appropriate treatment in addition to acquiring skills to effectively carry out cancer prevention programs, community surveillance and early detection.
The training programme will be completed in a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 4 academic years
Click here for more information
Fellowship in Healthcare Capacity Building for Sustainable Development (health economics)
Course code: W65
The purpose of the Fellowship Program is to improve health outcomes by strengthening leadership and management of healthcare programs and in particular HIV/AIDS interventions. The program uses an academic training model that is locally owned, relevant and sustainable. More specifically, the Program is geared towards equipping health care workers with technical skills and knowledge to ensure efficient and effective implementation of health services. Further, the program aims at establishing a capacity building framework for the participating local organizations to enhance the delivery of quality services.
The Fellowship targets middle to senior level public health professionals in the public and private sector. Fellows will be selected based on their potential for leadership and commitment to the health service in the public or private sector and will be expected to provide leadership in HIV prevention, care, and treatment programs at community, regional, national and international levels upon graduation.
Click here for more information
Fellowship in Gynaecological Oncology
Course code: H117
Gynecologic Oncology Fellowship is an advanced clinical training aimed at training sub-specialty skills for managing reproductive cancers.  The training is offered to individuals who have completed Masters in Medicine (MMed) in Obstetrics and Gynaecology course or equivalent and are already recognized as specialists. This is in keeping with the University of Nairobi Vision, ‘to be a world-class university committed to scholarly excellence’ and our Mission ‘to provide quality university education and training and to embody the aspirations of the Kenyan people and the global community through creation, preservation, integration, transmission and utilization of knowledge’. The Clinical Fellowship training program will cover a minimum duration of 24 months and a maximum of 48 months from the date of registration. 
Click here for more information
Fellowship in Paediatric Emergency and Critical Care
Course code: H116
The Fellowship in Paediatric Emergency and Critical Care is a Clinical Fellowship Program intended to equip Paediatricians with highly specialized clinical knowledge and practical skills, essential for the evaluation and management of acutely and critically ill children in both urban and rural centres, to internationally recognized standards.
Click here for more information
Fellowship in paediatric anaesthesia
Course code: H111
The program is designed to train anaesthesiologists with relevant knowledge, skills and competencies for safe delivery of anaesthesia care to children.
Click here for more information
Fellowship in Clinical Nephrology
Course code: H114
In Kenya, it is currently estimated that 10,000 people develop end stage renal disease out of which only 1,000 (10%) access medical care. Of these, only 250 undergo dialysis at Kenyatta National Hospital with approximately 50 receiving transplantation annually, thus approximately 200 people go to for transplantation outside the country. In line with the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 Article 43 (1) (a) there is therefore, an urgent need for an increase in capacity building at county level for service provision. This falls within the mandate of East Africa Kidney Institute. In line with this mandate, the University of Nairobi has developed Fellowship courses to address skills gap for the healthcare providers (HCPs) at the county and Nation wide level. The course takes two years.
Click here for more information
Fellowship in Paediatric Nephrology
Course code: H115
The Fellowship in Nephrology programme is intended to provide opportunity for eligible individuals to attain fundamental knowledge, procedural skills, practical skills, and professional and ethical behavior, essential for the practice of nephrology to the standard recognized internationally.
The program takes two years.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






