https://www.africanlibraryproject.org/additional-work#youth






Additional Work | African Library Project







































































About Us
African Libraries
Resources / FAQ
Book Drives
Pay for Shipping
Donate
 


Select Page


 
 



 



 













 
 


Biennial International Best Practices Summit

Every two years, we pull together with all of our partners to strategize on how to strengthen our work. Summit activities typically include:

Touring local ALP libraries
Sharing program administration and funding best practices
Sharing library development and management best practices
Sharing librarian training best practices
Facilitating library management workshops for local teacher-librarians in the host country
Celebrating our accomplishments and global community 

Our 8th summit took place March 8-14, 2020 in Motloang, Lesotho!

 
 
 
 





 



 



 
 


Youth Leadership Projects

Some of our youth book drive organizes deepen their work with
the African Library Project by becoming Youth Ambassadors. These young leaders are:
• Helping to recruit their peers to do book drives
• Mentoring new book drive organizers
• Launching new initiatives like our STEM Project
• Finding new ways to use social media to raise funds
 
Read more about our Youth Ambassadors

 
 
 



Promoting African Children’s Literature

African Library Project is proud to do its part in expanding access to books in Africa one library at a time. However, we know that tackling this issue requires supporting the growth of local publishing within Africa.
We also believe children in the United States equally benefit from having access to more African literature. To shine a spotlight on these efforts, here are some African literary partners we are proud to support!
 
 
 




 



 



 



 



 
 
 



 
 


.
1. GETTING STARTED

 
 

.
2. collecting& sorting
 
 

.
3. PACKING& mAILING
 
 

.
4. AFTER YOUR DRIVE
 
 

.
ALL steps1 to 4
 
 
 
 




 
 
 


STAY IN TOUCH AND SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
 
 















 
 
 
 


 
 
 



 


Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Linkedin




Youtube


 
 


 © African Library Project | info@africanlibraryproject.org | EIN: 65-1261685 19 Mantua Road, Mount Royal, NJ 08061 | P: +1 856.292.5119 
 Designed by Creative Stars NY 

 
 
 




































