https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-business-and-management-sciences



 












Faculty of Business and Management Sciences | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Business and Management Sciences

















Diploma Programmes
Postgraduate Diploma Programmes
Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Diploma in Business Management
Course code - L123
The Diploma in Business Management prepares undergraduate students for careers in  management in both public and private sectors of the economy and also forms the foundation for undergraduate degrees in relevant fields.  It also provides an avenue for achieving the Millennium Development Goals and the objectives of Vision 2030 for national development. This programme is highly relevant in all areas of management in organisations as it meets the needs for upcoming managers or those who need specific skills in the management of projects. The programme intends to offer education and training in  planning and management to a broad spectrum of students from the East African region and beyond.
Click here for more information
Diploma in Human Resource Management
Course code - L125
The training in Human Resources Management is key to the development of nay nation. It has now been generally accepted that human resource is a major, if not the most important resource in an organization. As Kenya embarks on the industrialization process it requires individuals who may have had a chance of attaining a University degree yet they need middle level training to enable them function productively in their organizations. This course will fill a gap in training need and will enable the University of Nairobi to contribute to the Human Resource development in Kenya. It will also enable the University of Nairobi to access its training to all deserving persons all over the country.
Click here for more information
Diploma in Public Relations
Course code - L137
The purpose of Diploma in Public Relations is to train persons who wish to pursue a career in Public Relations.  The programme is also beneficial to professionals involved in executive-level management, marketing, public relations, and other areas impacting the communications and image of an organization. For those individuals entering the public relations arena, the public relations diploma offers an excellent academic background in public relations in addition to the skills needed to break into and advance in the public relation profession. For those with substantial experience, the course offers the ability to keep a breast of the developments in the industry.
Click here for more information
Diploma in Purchasing and Supplies Management
Course code - L126
Kenya has experienced drastic changes in the business environment over the past decade.  The competition in the market has increased with the advent of liberalization.  Organizations, both in the public and private sectors have had to adjust and seek ways of becoming more efficient and more effective in the provision of goods and services.  There is a need therefore to develop both the function and profession of purchasing and supply.  Organizations need to improve their strategic and tactical thinking so that they can be able to remove waste and create value in their operations.  To accomplish this, these organizations will require personnel with holistic perceptions of the chain of activities in order to function effectively at any particular point in it.  There has been a growing demand from the potential students who have been inquiring about the course at the Centre.
Click here for more information
Diploma in Project Planning and Management
Course code - L147
The Diploma in Project Planning and Management prepares undergraduate students for careers in project planning and management in both public and private sectors of the economy and also forms the foundation for undergraduate degrees in relevant fields.  It also provides an avenue for achieving the Millennium Development Goals and the objectives of Vision 2030 for national development. This programme is highly relevant in all areas of management in organisations as it meets the needs for upcoming managers or those who need specific skills in the management of projects. The programme intends to offer education and training in project planning and management to a broad spectrum of students from the East African region and beyond.
Click here for more information




Postgraduate Diploma in Strategic Studies
Course code - R47
The common regulations governing Postgraduate Diploma programmes in all Faculties, Institutes and Schools shall apply. The following shall be the minimum entry requirements for the Post-Graduate Diploma in Strategic Studies: A first degree from a recognized University or an equivalent qualification from a recognized University, and at least one year’s certified experience in relevant public service.
Click here for more information




Bachelor of Commerce
Course code - D33
The programme is both academic and practical in its orientation. The teaching method methods applied include lecturers, tutorials, assignments, class discussions, case analysis, and research. Students are evaluated on the basis of class attendance and participation, performance in assignments, tests, and in final examinations done at the end of each semester. Links with the business community, industry, and other business schools provide an important component.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science Finance and Accounting
Course code – D35
This is a premier finance degree programme with a broad management context that combines theoretical and practical knowledge and experience that is appealing to a wide variety of employers and those want to be self-employed. This programme is an addition to the School of Business portfolio of degree programmes.
This programme will provide the learner with the necessary preparation for a career within the finance industry.  It will provide the learner with an excellent mix of finance, economics, accounting and more general management knowledge, skills and competencies.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Project Planning and Management
Course code - L46
The Bachelor in Project Planning and Management will be both academic and practical in its orientation. The teaching and learning methods will include lectures, distance study materials, assignments, class discussions, case analysis and research. Students will be evaluated on the basis of class attendance and participation, performance in assignments and end of semester examinations. The course will create links with the business community, industry, parastatals and other government institutions through attachment.
Click here for more information




Master of Business Administration
Course code – D61 
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme of the University of Nairobi seeks to equip participants with skills, techniques and understanding required for successful managerial careers in the public and private sectors of the economy.  The UoN MBA programme strength is founded on its long history since 1972, experienced lecturers with a wide variety of backgrounds, and diversity in the student body in terms of backgrounds and nationalities. Participants are drawn from the Eastern African region and beyond. Our proximity to the vibrant Nairobi metropolis and central location gives us an important competitive edge regionally. The course is distinguished by its rigor and variety, offering one of the highest numbers of specialization options in the region. In its most recent revision, we benchmarked against top universities worldwide in North America, Europe, South Africa and the Far East. The quality of our graduates remains undisputed and will be zealously guarded through strict quality control and benchmarking with the world’s best.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Finance
Course code – D63 
The Master of Science (MSc) degree in Finance is designed to assist students enhance their managerial effectiveness within the fields of Finance, Accounting, Investments, Banking and Insurance.  The programme is practical and career-oriented, while maintaining high standards of rigour and scholarship. It provides new skills, analytical tools and perspectives, which provide a sound basis for financial management, accounting, investments, banking and insurance. Students are to be drawn from the Eastern and Central African region and beyond.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Human Resource Management
Course code - D64
Human resource managers are increasingly recognized as important contributors to overall business success. The Master of Science degree in Human Resource Management is designed to strengthen the ability of human resource professionals to perform this strategic role.  The degree emphasizes the application of the knowledge, competencies, and skills necessary to integrate business and human resource strategies. The Master of Science degree in Human Resource Management is designed to help human resource practitioners tap into new opportunities, handle new responsibilities and respond to new imperatives. The degree programme will open the door to advanced career opportunities and increase graduates competitiveness in this field. Graduates of this high-quality degree programme will be well prepared to address the wide spectrum of challenges facing the human resource management profession in this era of global competition. The degree is intended to prepare graduates for existing human resource positions such as Human Resource Director/Manager, International Human Resource Consultant, Organizational Development and Change Strategist, Human Resource Development Specialist and Reward Management Specialist.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Marketing
Course code – D65 
Recent changes in the national, regional and global environments justify introduction of marketing science oriented academic programs in the School of Business. These changes include  the increased customer expectations especially in terms of the quality and range of goods and services; the rapid advance of micro-electronic technology which has revolutionized many of the processes by which goods and services are made available; increased competition in provision of goods and services; greater emphasis on consumer rights in terms of safety, reliability and  better information; fast improvements in worldwide communication systems enabling faster flow of information between customers, suppliers, and market intermediaries; increased supra-national laws and regulations affecting business as a result of decisions made by key international organizations; and fast changing global economic and socio-political environments.
To successfully manage the above demands of the modern information technology-based economy our graduates must be appropriately empowered. Although the current MBA Program offers several marketing courses, it is primarily a conversion degree in which students from all disciplines are admitted for purposes of acquiring general management principles. The Msc Marketing is a highly specialized course which provides students with valuable breadth and depth of marketing science. The government, the industry and the academia have also expressed keen immense demand for marketing science empowered graduates. These factors, among others, constitute the rationale for adding Msc in marketing to the package of customer driven programmes offered by the School of Business.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Entrepreneurship and Innovations Management
Course code - D66
Entrepreneurship and innovation management represent the most important engines of value and new wealth creation in the contemporary economy. The Master of Science degree in Entrepreneurship and Innovations Management of the University of Nairobi is designed to give business managers and professionals a focused, relevant and utilizable body of knowledge in entrepreneurship and innovation management, suitable for people with an interest in starting and managing innovative ventures either within existing structures or by realizing new economic endeavours. As most corporations today realize that they need to be more innovative and entrepreneurial, the programme is positioned to prepare participants to help meet this challenge. The Master of Science degree in Entrepreneurship and Innovations Management is, therefore, devised in a way that can be utilized to position oneself for a fast-track career in innovative companies. The degree programme seeks to equip participants with requisite skills and knowledge for managing start-up businesses as well as successful entrepreneurial and -innovative management of existing enterprises. The degree is intended to develop high caliber manpower for developing entrepreneurship through research, policy and practice. The programme is suited for people who hold senior managerial positions as well as those who intend to take up careers in advisory roles in entrepreneurship related programmes. The programme offers students an opportunity to learn about and work directly with entrepreneurial firms. The programme also provides an excellent preparation for students wishing to obtain an integrated view of business operations.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Project Planning and Management
Course code - L50
The Master of Arts in Project Planning and Management does not have areas of specialization. The Programme, however, covers all the critical project planning and management areas including project monitoring and evaluation, project design, planning and implementation, project financing, project management information system, statistical methods, research methods, among others. Entry requirements for the Master of Arts in Project Planning and Management programme include: earned Bachelors’ degree in any area with at least a 2nd Class Honours Upper Division from the University of Nairobi or from any other accredited and recognized university, and or a lower 2nd Class Honours with two years working experience. The minimum duration of the Master of Arts in Project Planning and Management is 18 months. Admissions into the Master’s Programme is done thrice a year in January, May and September.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Supply Chain Management
Course code - D67
In each semester, candidates will be required to take a minimum of two (2) and a maximum of six (6) examination papers inclusive of supplementary examinations. All candidates shall be required to take and pass a total of fifteen (15) examination papers before being allowed to proceed to do a Research Project. Each course shall be examined through a two-hour written examination paper at the end of each semester.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Operations and Technology Management
Course code - D68
Through this programme, student will develop advanced analytical skills needed to maximize organizational performance and oversee more efficient operations.
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy in Project Planning and Management
Course code - L83
The Doctoral Studies Programme aims to provide an opportunity to candidates with outstanding academic background to engage in advanced research studies in the field of project planning and management. Candidates are expected to have intellectual curiosity, self- discipline and a high level of motivation to be able to carry out research in their various areas of specialization and make a significant contribution to knowledge.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration
Course Code- D80
The PhD in Business Administration programme provides for a wide variety of specializations in management. To prepare Doctor of Philosophy (PhD.) candidates for advanced research, teaching and writing skills in their chosen area of specialization, candidates shall be required to take supporting coursework comprising six course units and lasting at least two semesters. The PhD. programme seeks to orient candidates to the informed and critical application of knowledge to problems and issues concerning management disciplines and professions. The doctoral programme is intended to enhance individuals’ capacity and skills for positions involving teaching, and research, in local and international institutions.
The curriculum runs for three academic years.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






