http://soe.rongovarsity.ac.ke





School of Education





































Skip to content







 





Main Menu




Home
About Us
AcademicsMenu Toggle

Diploma and Certificate
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Academic Staff


DepartmentsMenu Toggle

Dept of Educational Management and Foundation
Dept of Curriculum, Instruction and Media
Dept-of-Educational-Psychology-and-Science


ResearchMenu Toggle

Publications
Thesis
Ongoing Research


News
Main Site
 

 
 
























Thesis DefencePhD Students Defend their ThesisRead moreLifeHAckThe Best Office Furniture You've Probably Never Heard OfRead moreMeetingSchool Of Education MeetingRead more 





 
















 




Undergraduate Studies 



We offer a quality teaching and experience to our undergraduate students.











 




Postgraduate Masters 



We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our graduate students.











 




Doctorate studies 



We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our doctorate students.

















 




Dr. Jane Kembo 



 Dean, School of Education










Welcome Message 



The School of Education was established in 2008 in a Satellite Campus of Moi University (South Nyanza Satellite Campus) in Rongo Town, and then moved to the then Moi Institute of Technology popularly known as MIT. In June, 2012, the school was part of Rongo University college, a constituent of Moi university’s main campus at Kitere Hill. We started with only one undergraduate program, B.Ed. Arts, all self-sponsored, admitting the first cohort of 145 Government sponsored students in 2012.The school has expanded its student population to over 2,500, as well as itsprograms to include B.Ed Science, B.Ed. in Special Needs Education, in addition to post graduate programs in Educational Leadership and Policy, Curriculum Development, and Educational Psychology. Our students continue to make us proudas a school; in 2018, one of them was able to showcase how we can produce methanol from sweet potatoes. We have a student population, many of whom do so well during teaching practice that schools retain them after the exercise.The School of Education, is headed by the Dean who is the administrative head ofthe School and is run through three (3) departments of Psychology, Curriculum, Instruction and Media, and Management and Foundations. Each of the departments is headed by a Head of Department.
























Current News & Events 









SOE Online Orientation of Students 
















 































school of 



EDUCATION 



Goldmine of Knowlege and Innovation
















Be Part of us



















Our alumni



















Enquires
































Social Media 



Stay Connected 



Dean, School of Education,Rongo University,P.O. Box 103-40404, RONGOEmail: dean-education@rongovarsity.ac.ke















Twitter





Facebook





Pinterest





Vimeo





Instagram


























QUICK STATS 












0


Departments














1


Programmess














1


Lecturers






















 







						Copyright © 2022 School of Education | Powered by Astra 























