http://agrieconomics.uonbi.ac.ke













agrieconomic | DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS












































































































 Skip to main content
 












HomeStaffAcademicTechnicalSupportStudentsStudent Activitiesstudent OrganizationsE-Learning PortalApply OnlineE-CLASS Transcript/Certificate Application Student EmailStudent PortalLibrary ServicesAlumni Old WebsiteCovid-19 UpdatesUoN@50UoN @ 50 Webinars















Search





























DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS

UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI












About UsMission,Vision ,Core ValuesBrief HistoryMessage from HODService CharterCONTACT DETAILSPROGRAMMESHow to ApplyDoctor of Philosophy (PhD)MastersUndergraduateResearchResearch NewsResearch ProjectCURRENT-Research ProjectsCOMPLETED-Research ProjectsJournalsGalleryONLINE REGISTRATIONREGISTRATIONREGISTRATION PROCEDUREPRE- REGISTRATION LETTERORIENTATION PROGRAMMEONLINE LEARNINGFees & FundingPAYMENT OF FEESDownloads






























Department of Agricultural Economics Postgraduates For 63rd Graduation Ceremony 



Read More

 





63rd Graduation Ceremony



Read More

 




University of Nairobi/University of Helsinki Call for Graduate (PhD & Masters) Fellowship Applications



Read More

 




Agricultural Economics Undergraduates Graduation List For 63rd Graduation Ceremony



Read More

 




UoN 63rd Graduation Ceremony



Read More

 




UoN Research Week 2020



Read More






College of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences 2020/2021 first years orientation



Read More

 





 Department of Agricultural Economics



Read More






































ResearchWe have effective lecturers that are well organized, competent,…Read more
LibraryThe University of Nairobi Library System is composed of twelve…Read more
About UsDepartment of Agricultural Economics is located on ground floor…Read more









THEMATIC AREAS
Events
Featured Research












 Agricultural & Applied Economics








Agribusiness Management 




View all Thematic Areas











Oct 30


Deadline Extended: Call for application on academic exchange program to Ghana by University of Nairobi, Africa Centre of Excellence on Sustainable Operations for Resource Management and Food Supply






Oct 20


Recruitment of a PhD Student - Funded by “Strengthening Urban Resilience in Food and Nutrition Security in Kenya” (SURE-FOOD)” Project






Sep 16


Presentation of "Cases of counterfeit seeds have declined report" by Prof. John Mburu at the Doubletree Hotel on Thursday 16 September 2021






Aug 02


Performance Measurement with Data Envelopment Analysis - 2nd -28th August 2021





View all









 Effect of Seed Treatment on Wheat Seed Viability and Vigour ﻿ Sunday, May 22, 2016 - 20:30Use of farm-saved seed without treating encourage accumulation of seed borne pathogens which lead to outbreak and spread of diseases that result in poor emergence, crop stand, vigour, and reduction in yield. This study sought to determine the effect of seed treatment on Read more
Biopesticides and Their Role in Sustainable Agricultural ProductionSunday, May 22, 2016 - 20:28Biopesticides are derivatives of plants, microorganisms and insects. Substances from plants and animals have been used to manage diseases in crops, animals and humans. Reliance on nature to heal nature is a practice for many people around the world. Use of natural products was Read more
 Assessing Sensory Characteristics and Consumer Preference of Legume-Cereal-Root Based Porridges in Nandi County ﻿ Sunday, May 22, 2016 - 20:26Previously, porridge has been cereal based, consumed as a beverage or weaning food. Malnutrition among children has necessitated inclusion of legumes and roots in an effort to boost nutrient density. Therefore, the current study aimed at identifying the most acceptable porridge based on Read more
Influence of Coating Application Methods on the Postharvest Quality of CassavaSunday, April 10, 2016 - 20:21Various modes of edible coating application vary in their coat dispersion and film formation, hence the need to determine the most effective mode of application for cassava. Edible surface coatings have been found to be effective in preserving the quality of various food products. However, there Read more

View all news















Latest News & Announcements



 

Staff Exchange Visit at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology (JOOUST) in BondoSaturday, January 15, 2022 - 13:37Staff Exchange Visit at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology (JOOUST) in Bondo
 

Signing of Performance Contract 2021/2022Thursday, January 6, 2022 - 09:13The VC of University of Nairobi Prof. S. Kiama, DVC Academic Affairs Prof. J. Ogeng'o, Dean Faculty of Agriculture Prof. R. Nyikal and the chairman of LARMAT today the 6th of November 2022, attended the meeting for signing of the Performance Contract 2021/2022. The chairman of Agricultural Read more
Handing over from previous chairman Prof. John Mburu (right) to Dr. Jonathan Nzuma (left)Tuesday, December 21, 2021 - 06:33The outgoing Chairman, Department of Agricultural Economics Prof. John Mburu hands over to the Read more
Re-advertisement for PhD Positions in Sustainable Management and Operations Tuesday, December 14, 2021 - 09:50Sustainable Management and Operations (SuMO) is a new three year PhD program. It is planned to be offered at the Kuehne Logistics University (KLU) through the Department of Agricultural Economics at the Read more
 

GUEST LECTURE BY PROF. GOR C.O.Tuesday, December 14, 2021 - 08:42Visiting lecturer Prof. Gor C.O from Jaramogi oginga odinga University held a talk for first years from the department of Agricultural Economics. Prof Gor presented on Agripreneurship. The talk was based on the fact that economies in developing countries mostly depend on Agriculture. According Read more
 

Prof. Chris Gor paid a call to the Department on December 6, 2021 as part of the ISEFOODS projectTuesday, December 7, 2021 - 10:39
 

Nyeri Dairy Innovation Platform, Revolutionizing the Dairy SectorFriday, December 3, 2021 - 14:59In Nyeri County, an estimated 80% of the households keep dairy animals deriving their livelihoods from the sub-sector. In the financial year 2019/2020, the Nyeri County Government estimated that dairy farmers earned an Read more

View all news
























Students



Show — Students
Hide — Students


 Student Email


Apply Online


E-Learning Portal


International Students


Library Services


Student Portal


student Organizations


Physical Resources


Students Support





Campus event calendar





Oct 30


Deadline Extended: Call for application on academic exchange program to Ghana by University of Nairobi, Africa Centre of Excellence on Sustainable Operations for Resource Management and Food Supply






Oct 20


Recruitment of a PhD Student - Funded by “Strengthening Urban Resilience in Food and Nutrition Security in Kenya” (SURE-FOOD)” Project





View all





Important Links



Show — Important Links
Hide — Important Links


Announcement


Collaborators & Research Partners


Community Outreach


Employer's Graduates verification


Innovations


Intellectual Property


Products & Other Services


Publications, Conferences & Seminars


Speeches


Staff Email


Staff SMIS Login


Uon Digital Repository


Uon Intranet






























Follow us
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
















Subscribe to
our Newsletter































Information For



Show — Information For
Hide — Information For


Media


Alumni


Visitors/Tourists


Partnerships


Staff


students


Journals











Information About



Show — Information About
Hide — Information About


Physical Location


Fees and funding


Library


Student Research











Quick Links 



Show — Quick Links 
Hide — Quick Links 


Contact search


Jobs and vacancies


Campus Life


Health Services


CAVS Welfare


Gallery











Twitter block

Tweets by @uoncavs
















Subfooter Menu



Show — Subfooter Menu
Hide — Subfooter Menu


Home


Staff


Students


Alumni


 Old Website


Covid-19 Updates


UoN@50

















© University of Nairobi 2021.  All rights Reserved.



































