http://sste.rongovarsity.ac.ke





School of SSTE











































Skip to content







 





Main Menu




Home
About Us
AcademicsMenu Toggle

Diploma and Certificate
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Academic Staff


DepartmentsMenu Toggle

Dept of Physical Sciences
Dept of Biological Sciences
Department of Mathematics & Computing


ResearchMenu Toggle

Publications
Thesis
CMDPS


News
Main Site
 

 
 
























 
Full 1PRACTICAL SESSIONSchool of Science Students during a practical sessionRead moreFull 2Students Undertaking Practical TrainingRead moreFull 3practical sessionStudents in the Computer Laboratory during a practical SessionRead moreFull 3 - copyTEXTILEFashion and Design Practical SessionRead more 



 
















 




Undergraduate Studies 




We offer a quality teaching and experience to our undergraduate students. 











 




Postgraduate Studies 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our graduate students. 











 




Doctorate studies 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our doctorate students. 

















 




Dr. Francis Olal 




Ag. Dean, School of Science, Technology and Engineering 










Welcome Message 




Innovative application of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) largely remains untapped in Kenya, yet it has a huge potential for scientific discovery and production of commercializable products and services needed to contribute new solutions to difficult problems afflicting society in many sectors and should inevitably be mainstreamed in the scientific research agenda of this 21st Century. At the School of Science, Technology and Engineering (SSTE), we teach students STEM thereby effectively preparing them to be innovative and disruptive scientific thinkers; this being fundamental in enhancing scientific research, discovery, job creation, manufacturing and improved service delivery in the true spirit of the Kenya Vision 2030. In this long-term development policy, Kenya aims to transform into a newly industrializing, middle-income Country, providing a high quality of life to all its citizens by the year 2030 in a clean and secure environment. In particular, the central role of STEM in realization of this vision cannot be overstated, the scarce and much needed scientific research funds notwithstanding. Against the foregoing background, the SSTE is positioning to closely work with the National Government and the County Governments of Migori, Homabay, Kisumu, Siaya, Kisii, Kericho, Kakamega and Busia and international partners, among others to unleash the potential of STEM in solving the pressing and perennial problems in the region with a view to improving healthcare and enhancing agricultural production. 






























Current News & Events 



SSTE Online Orientation of Students 




 




Vice Chancellor Receives KEBS Certificates 










 











The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Samuel Gudu is receiving KEBS certificates allowing Rongo University Textile Unit to produce surgical masks and protective clothing-coveralls.The surgical masks are designed with a breathable three layers of fabric consisting of two outer layers made of polypropylene and a melt blown as an inner filter to provide plenty of protection from droplets.The Unit also produces re-usable face masks which are 3 ply breathable with two outer layers made of 100% cotton and a polypropylene fabric for the inner filter.  


















From Waste Bottle to Effective Health Care: Manufacturing Low Cost Microscopes for the Tele-Microscopy Diagnosis 










Rongo University is part of a multi-university team that has been awarded a three-year grant from the National Research Fund to investigate and pilot a Waste to Healthcare Value Chain. Led by University of Nairobi’s Dr. Richard Ayah (Director of the Science and Technology Park and a member of the School of Public Health)The project manufacturing value chain shall be based at the Science and Technology Park as per the figure below. Waste plastic bottles are collection, cleaning and shredding to standard size chips that are will then be passed into an extruder to produce a constant diameter plastic filament. This will form the input raw material for the 3-dimensional rapid-prototyping printer used to manufacture the core microscope components. The plastic microscope casings shall be integrated with purchased lens and supporting electronics to produce low cost, high resolution digital microscopes that shall be distributed to medical facilities in malarial prone areas. Read More.. 











 


















RONGO UNIVERSITY MOVES TO BRAND ITS HONEY AND BUILD CAPACITY IN APICULTURE 










 











As the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Samuel Gudu receives an observation hive donated by African Beekeepers’ Ltd from Prof. Z. Ngalo Otieno-Ayayo (the Apiculture Project Team Leader), the University demonstrates its capacity to process and brand honey from its apiary. The Vice-Chancellor received samples of branded honey from the project team, with the Deputy Vice Chancellor (AFP) looking on. The observation hive will help in training beekeepers and other stakeholders to understand honey bee biology, habits and habitat structure, while at the same time offering an opportunity for state-of-the-art hands-on technical training in Apiculture. The move to start branding will also help small scale beekeepers who may need help with branding and marketing their products.Rongo University, through this project, is in the process of building partnerships with Producer Organisations and other beekeeping stakeholders in order to improve the services in the Apiculture Value Chain. It is envisaged that through such partnerships honey production in Migori county will increase more than tenfold. 


















Rongo University Textile Production Unit 



Migori County Health department led by Hon. Dr. Iscah Oluoch identified Rongo University Textile Production Unit (TEPU) to produce PPEs. Several discussions on the issue specifically on the production of facemasks for health workers of Migori County and for the general public have been held. Accordingly, Rongo University has taken the following steps: 


1. In contact with KEBS for standardization for PPEs. 


2. Sourced the required fabrics 


3. Embarked on production of re-usable cloth and disposable facemasks 


4. Samples have been taken to KEBS for certification. 



The University acknowledges the support we have received from: 


1. Dr. George Marwa, County Health Standard and Regulations/Health Financing 


2. Dr. Samuel Kola, County Pharmacist/Logistician. 


3. Dr. Edward Okemwa, Deputy Pharmacist/Logistician. 


4. Mr. Ken Mogaka, County Health Administrator.



​ 










 











 











 






















QUICK STATS 












0


Departments














1


Programmess














1


Lecturers
























school of 



science, engineering and technology 




Goldmine of Knowlege and Innovation 
















Be Part of us



















Our alumni



















Enquires
























 







						Copyright © 2022 School of SSTE | Powered by Astra 


























