https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-science-technology



 












Faculty of Science & Technology | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Science & Technology

















Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Bachelor of Science
Course code - I20
Courses shall be evaluated in terms of units: A course unit being defined as a series of 35 one-hour lecture equivalents. For this purpose 1-hour lecture is equivalent to one 2-hour tutorial or one 3-hour practical or any combination of these that may be approved by the Board of the School of Physical Sciences.
To qualify for the award of a degree, a candidate shall normally have completed study for the degree exceeding a period of not less than four academic years and not more than eight academic years since registration.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Biology
Course code -I11
BSc. Biology is a program that places emphasis on disciplines that relate to natural resource management such as parasitology, entomology, microbiology and molecular biology. It is expected that these students shall have a broad-based foundation in biology including molecular biology, to provide graduates who will directly contribute to food production and poverty eradication.  Furthermore, the course is designed to produce capability for food processing industries and development, environmental protection and park development which requires specialists in biology and computer mathematical modelling in addition to taxonomists.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Microbiology and  Biotechnology
Course code - I23
This is a collaborative Programme between the Departments of Botany and Zoology. The first two years of study are designed to give the students a broad but well detailed coverage of biology including introductory courses in Microbiology. During this time the students will also take foundation courses in chemistry and biochemistry. This will enable them to gain a better understanding of how microorganisms function and to appreciate the diversity of their roles in nature during the later part of the course.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Environmental Conservation and Natural Resources Management
Course code -I41
This is a science degree programme degree that will specialize in subjects dealing with the environment, and natural resources conservation and manage Environment issues and natural resource conservation and management of major concern. that will specialize in subjects dealing of major concern. Graduates of this degree programme will find themselves well placed to meet the challenges of this expanding field. The field of natural resources conservation and management is a complex interdisciplinary nature and, therefore, it is difficult to provide a thorough coverage of all areas of natural resources management and environmental sciences in one undergraduate curriculum. The course will be composed of four core subject areas, namely biological sciences, physical sciences, environmental science and policy.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry
Course Code- H12
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is a foundational course in chemistry that has material covering the traditional branches of chemistry namely organic, inorganic and physical. It also has courses from other branches of chemistry such as analytical chemistry, environmental chemistry and industrial chemistry as well as other disciplines such as physics. It seeks to explain factors that cause reactions to occur, how they occur and their adverse and non-adverse effects on our well being. It prepares one to pursue postgraduate studies in any of these fundamental branches.
The students in the final two years, in addition to the traditional core chemistry courses designed for chemistry majors, will choose from specialist options in the field of analytical chemistry. They will also undertake a research project and/or dissertation in their final fourth year
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Course code – P15
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science programme imparts and fosters students with the requisite knowledge, skills and attitudes for professional excellence and competences in computer science theories and practice areas through quality teaching, research and innovation. The dynamic and emerging trends in Information, Communication and Technologies (ICTs) developments and the appropriation of the same ICTS, provides the context that continues to inform our teaching and learning.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Actuarial Science
Course code -I07
The B.Sc. in Actuarial Science course is designed to equip the students with training in theoretical and practical aspects of Actuarial Science in order for them to work in life and non-life insurance companies (designing insurance products and valuing financial contracts and investing funds); consultancy (offering advice to occupational pension funds and employee benefit plans); government service (supervising insurance companies and advising on the national insurance); and also in the stock exchange, industry, commerce and academia.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Mathematics
Course code -I09
This program will equip the students with the necessary skills and capacity for advanced mathematical research as well as provide the necessary problem-solving skills to deal with real-life situations and emerging issues.The aim of this program is to provide the student with the opportunity to develop confidence and skills in pure and applied mathematics so as to use mathematical modeling and mathematical techniques to solve real-world problems.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Statistics
Course code -I63
Statistics is an informative science, in fact, the science and art of extracting meaning from seemingly incomprehensible data. Most sectors of human endeavor produce raw data.  Thus there is a lot of raw data that is usually stored in computer discs. Such undigested data is of no use until we can start to make sense of it.  Proper utilization of available resources in all sectors of an economy can accelerate the attainment of the aspirations of Vision 2030.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Chemistry
Course Code- I08
Industrial Chemistry is the branch of chemistry which applies physical and chemical processes towards the transformation of raw materials into products that are of benefit to humanity. The goal of the Bachelor of Science in Industrial Chemistry degree programme is to produce graduates who will be highly skilled in this activity. We do this by first giving the students a strong foundation in chemistry, mathematics and physics. The Industrial Chemistry graduate is a chemist with knowledge linkages in engineering, chemical processing, economics and industrial management.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science Analytical Chemistry
Course Code- I14
Analytical chemistry is the science of measurement and identification of the chemical compounds that underlie most aspects of modern life and plays a central part within the chemical industry. It also involves the processing and communication of information about the composition and structure of matter.
The students will be expected to complete a total of 12 courses in each of the first two academic years.  The first two years comprise Eight (8) core chemistry courses covering the traditional areas of inorganic, organic and physical chemistry, as well as a basic grounding in mathematics and computer skills (including use of the World Wide Web).  In the final two years, in addition to the traditional core chemistry courses designed for chemistry majors, students will choose from specialist options in the field of analytical chemistry.  They will also undertake a small analytical chemistry-type research project and/or dissertation in your final fourth year.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
Course code - I64
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is a foundational degree programme in the physical sciences subject domain that offers course units in the classical branches of chemistry namely organic, inorganic and physical chemistry and also incorporates elements of analytical, environmental and industrial chemistry. Bachelor of Science in Chemistry degree programme was launched during the 2012/2013 academic year. The programme aims to equip learners with knowledge on chemical processes, how they occur and their beneficial effects on society. It prepares learners for employment in the chemical and allied industries, in addition to postgraduate studies in any of the chemistry sub-disciplines. 
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Geology
Course code - I13
The B.Sc. Geology course offers a unique range of educational opportunities spanning the diverse range of geological profession in the mineral, water, energy and environmental studies. The driving philosophy is geared towards the promotion of effective training, relevant research and academic excellence in geological and related fields. To enrich this program, the Department maintains close links with the needs of practice through scholarship, research, consultancy and the realization of the National and International development policy statements such as Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) respectively. Virtually all the courses under this program are recognized and accredited by the Geological Society of Kenya, which is the relevant professional body in the country.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Meteorology
Course Code- I10
The Bachelor of Science in Meteorology programme is a four year programme, developed to embrace new developments in the science of meteorology and the expanding areas of meteorological application.
The course is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills in weather and climate system analysis, weather forecasting, early warning, environmental pollution and Environmental Impacts Assessment, Biometeorology, Agrometeorology, Hydrometeorology, Renewable Energy Resources, Marine Meteorology, Aviation Meteorology and Environmental Meteorology.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Microprocessor Technology and Instrumentation
Course code - I39
Cognizant of the transformative power of Science and technology, there is need to train highly motivated and competent manpower capable of addressing any emerging issues and innovations in the spectrum of information, science and technology. The situational analysis undertaken by members of the department has resulted into consultations with experts within and outside the University. This culminated into a successful stakeholders’ workshop on the revision of the programme. The programme will provide leadership in innovation in the region for the benefit of the society and industry and further meet the societal needs such as in teaching, research laboratories, medical, industry, undertaking postgraduate studies and address new emerging issues related to information, science and technological innovations. The programme is envisaged to create employers and employable graduates in both formal and informal sectors.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Astronomy and Astrophysics
Course code - I44
This is a revised B.Sc Program that aims at providing sufficient basis for specialization in Astrophysics and Space Science. It captures the strengths of the Department in terms of expertise and infrastructure Astrophysics and Space Science. Some of the units in the old program have been re-structured or re-packaged while a number of new units have been introduced to enhance the areas of specialization.
Click here for more information




Master of Science in Geography and Environmental Studies
This programme was developed in order to address the emerging interest  prudent in the environmental  after the world realized the planet resources are finite and were getting depleted at very high rate hence the need for sustainable development that takes care of the present and future generations. After the Rio Summit on Environment and Development which proposed the Agenda 21 (Agenda for the 21st Century) each country promised to implement projects and land use activities that protects and preserves environmental integrity. Such projects require highly trained personnel hence the need for our country to start advanced training on the management of environment and natural resources. The Subject Benchmarks under this programme, within the UNESCO International Standard Classification of Education, include 031 (environmental sciences); 0522 (Natural environments and wildlife), 0532 (Earth sciences, especially Geography), 0712 (environmental protection) and 1022(occupational health and safety)
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Biological Science
The programme shall be offered for a period of not less than four and not more than twelve semesters. The programme will be offered by coursework, examination and thesis. Coursework shall consist of lectures, tutorials, practicals, fieldwork and seminars. Students will be required to take all 11 core units and two additional elective units in either of the two specialisation options giving a total of 13 units. On successful completion of the coursework, students will devote the rest the period in the programme to research in the chosen area of specialization of Entomology and writing a thesis.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Biochemistry
Course code – H561
The programme is designed equip students with theoretical and practical skills in Biochemistry and related fields that are applicable in major sectors of our economy namely, health, agriculture and industry, train skilled personnel to undertake research and academic responsibilities in institutions of higher learning in the field of Biochemistry and related disciplines and to enhance the capacity of the students to exploit and conserve the rich
biodiversity available within the ecosystem. 
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Bioinformatics
Course code -I583
This Programme is designed to provide sound knowledge of various aspects of the Bioinformatics as relevant to teaching, research development and entrepreneurship in Bioinformatics. This would assist in formulating adequate strategy to facilitate the application of biotechnology in research and encourage its use for the development of marketable products as well as to protect the environment and improve the quality of life. This Programme is designed to provide sound knowledge of various aspects of the Bioinformatics as relevant to teaching, research development and entrepreneurship in Bioinformatics. This would assist in formulating adequate strategy to facilitate the application of biotechnology in research and encourage its use for the development of marketable products as well as to protect the environment and improve the quality of life.
Click here for more information
Master Of Science In Biotechnology
Course code – I560
 The Master of Science in Biotechnology degree programme responds to the question
of the relevance of the degree to market, societal, economic, and environmental demands. At the end of this programme, the learner should be able to: Employ the fundamentals of disciplines that form biotechnology such as biology, computer applications, and mathematics and research methods. Apply modern biotechnological tools and related techniques in solving real-world biological challenges and improve quality of life. Illustrate the ability to carry out quality applied and basic research in a multidisciplinary platform. Evaluate and critique studies in related fields and assess tools for research. Design biosafety guidelines for genetically modified organisms and recombinant DNA products for the benefit of society.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Computer Science
Course code -P58
This program is designed to provide a sound knowledge of various aspects of Bioinformatics as relevant to teaching, research development and entrepreneurship in Bioinformatics. The program aims at training scholars who can conduct basic and applied multi-disciplinary research activities to address human and animal health, agriculture and the pharmaceutical industry. With advances in genomic technologies, vast amount of biological data continue to be generated. To get meaningful information from this data, scientists need to equip themselves with knowledge on molecular biology, sequencing, and skills necessary for designing tools to analyze massive amounts of data.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Information Systems
Course code - P56
Most ICT Managers are deficient in the key areas of managerial and organizational issues. The graduates with ICT technical skills get promoted to higher positions of management but are not well prepared to carry out their management duties.  This programme is designed to fill this gap by providing practising and aspiring ICT managers with the relevant skills that will enhance their service delivery from both technical and management perspectives. 
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Actuarial Science
Course code - I574
The Master of Science in Actuarial Science course is designed to equip the students with advanced training in theoretical and practical aspects of Actuarial Science in order for them to work in life and non-life insurance companies (designing insurance products and valuing financial contracts and investing funds); consultancy (offering advice to occupational pension funds and employee benefit plans); government service (supervising insurance companies and advising on the national insurance); and also in the stock exchange, industry, commerce and universities. The overall objective of this course is to equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge, develop and apply techniques of mathematics, statistics, probability, and finance to solving real business problems.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Mathematics
Course code - I577
The rationale of this programme is to provide students with the opportunity to develop confidence and skills to apply mathematical techniques to solve practical problems in society in general. This course is ideal for those who excel in and enjoy mathematics, in particular modelling and especially those who like asking ‘What if?’ It will equip the student with the skills to become a mathematician and also offer a good starting point for those who want to use their skills in application of Mathematics
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Analytical Chemistry
Course code – I501
The programme covers research methods, chemical separation and instrumentation and statistics and chemometrics. Postgraduate students in analytical chemistry will acquire skills that will enable them develop new methods for use of instruments in the analysis of chemical compounds.  The course is structured to equip the students with knowledge in the operation of a wide range of modern analytical instruments.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Chemistry
Course code - I571
Master of Science in Chemistry has materials covering the traditional branches of chemistry namely organic, inorganic and physical chemistry. It also has courses from other branches of chemistry such as analytical chemistry and industrial chemistry. It seeks to explain factors that course reactions to occur, how they occur and their adverse and non adverse effects on our well being. Graduate students will in addition to the traditional areas of chemistry take courses in descriptive inorganic and physical inorganic chemistry. They will also be introduced to bioinorganic chemistry, inorganic polymers, research methods, reaction kinetics and synthetic chemistry.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Environmental Chemistry
Course code - I572
Environmental chemistry is the study of the interaction between chemical substances and man and the environment.  The aim of the degree program is to produce graduates who are well grounded in environmental science, project management and research skills.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Industrial Chemistry
Course code -I605
Industrial Chemistry is the branch of chemistry, which applies physical and chemical processes towards the transformation of natural materials and their derivatives to products that are of benefit to humanity. Science and technology drives industrialization and hence economic growth. It is therefore important to develop graduates capable of translating chemical knowledge and skills into industrial development.
In addition to the traditional chemistry areas, the course covers research methods, material science, waste management, project management and total quality management.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Geology
Course code – I580
The course is designed to provide specialized training to make students adequately competent in their fields of specialization as well as train geological manpower in the fields that are commensurate with the country’s needs to cope with the contemporary challenges.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Meteorology
Course code – I580
The course is designed to provide specialized training to make students adequately competent in their fields of specialization as well as train geological manpower in the fields that are commensurate with the country’s needs to cope with the contemporary challenges.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Climate Change
Course code- I54
The Master of Science programme in Climate Change seeks to contribute to the national and global initiatives of responding to climate change effects through capacity building in various components of Climate Change Science including Change hazards, vulnerability and risk assessment; Mitigation; and Adaptation. This programme is unique in its coverage and is designed to cover a wide range of knowledge and skills required to address the challenges of regional and global climate change and sustainable development. The programme is designed to provide students with both theoretical and practical knowledge in Climate Change Science.
Click here for more information
Master of Climate Change and Adaptation
Course code- I58
The Master of Climate Change Adaptation (MCCA) programme of the University of Nairobi seeks to improve the science and practice of climate change and adaptation. It explores the fundamental changes caused by anthropogenic and natural activities that influence the alteration of the living earth’s environment.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Environmental Governance
Course code -A60
The world is characterized by skewed trade in natural resources, deforestation, geopolitical struggles over oil and gas supplies, desertification and increasing environment-related diseases among other issues. This raises important questions about how humans currently - and in future should organize the governance of natural resources and environments upon which they depend. Transformative leaders and change agents with a multidisciplinary practical knowledge on resource economy, policy, legal pluralism, global business, eco-health, community mobilization skills and integrated natural resources management are required to assist communities in sustainable utilization of resources as well as develop policy and generate research data that would guide integrated environmental management. In response to the needed human capacity in this area, the institute has developed a multidisciplinary and experiential learning program in environmental governance studies.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Geography and Environmental Studies
Course code- C538
The philosophy of the programme is to understand the spatial distribution, association and variation of phenomena and their interaction with the environment. The study of the relationship between humanity activities and the physical environment is a major focus of interest in the field of geography and environmental studies. The philosophical basis of geography as a science is that there exists recognizable regularity and order in the spatial distribution of phenomena. The degree of spatial processes and patterns in the physical and human environments is understood through a scientific and problem-solving approach. Through holistic approach to learning and the philosophical orientation of the discipline, this programme is designed to produce professionals who can appreciate the complexity of the environment and learn how to manage and conserve natural and human resources in line with the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Kenya Vision 2030 and the government’s Big Four Agenda.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Physics
Course code - I579
This is a revised M.Sc. Program that aims at providing sufficient basis for specialization in the various distinct areas of Physics as a subject. It captures the strengths of the Department in terms of expertise and infrastructure. The Department offers courses which largely produce M.Sc. graduates in the following specialization areas: Theoretical Physics, Condensed Matter  Physics, Geo and Space Physics, Electronics and Instrumentation, Nuclear and Radiation Physics and Laser Physics and Spectroscopy
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy in Biochemistry
Course code -H809
Doctor of Philosophy in Biological Sciences
the candidates will be required to carry out their thesis research under supervision and subsequently compile a thesis which would be presented for examination in the prescribed manner for Doctoral thesis in all faculties. Candidates who did not go through courses in scientific writing and research methods during their Masters degree Programme will be required to take such courses during their doctoral studies.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Biotechnology
Course code -I823
The Doctor of Philosophy in Biotechnology programme offers high-level hands-on training in the new cutting-edge biotechnology techniques. These techniques can be exploited to solve human, animal, and plant health as well as environmental problems that continuously put the world under the pressure of diseases, pollution, and food shortage. Current trends in biotechnology offer an important solution to most of these problems in a multidisciplinary approach. The aim of this program is to train holistic graduates who are able to assume leadership roles in pursuit of knowledge through quality biotechnology research, consultancy, and community service. This course is aligned to the UNESCO standards classification of education and training (ISCED-F, 2013) section 0588 (Inter-disciplinary programmes and qualifications involving natural sciences, mathematics, and statistics) of the international standard classification of education by UNESCO. The Ph.D. candidates will be required to carry out their thesis research under supervision and subsequently compile a thesis that would be presented for examination in the prescribed manner for a Doctoral thesis in all faculties.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Bioinformatics
Course code -I837
The revised Doctor of Philosophy in Bioinformatics degree program responds to the question of relevance and of the degree to market, societal, economic and environmental demands. The rationale arises from the need for integration of new molecular biology and Bioinformatics techniques and approaches into the syllabus and conformation to higher education guidelines set by the Commission for University Education.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Computer Science
Course code: P80
In the recent past, there has been tremendous interest in the field of Computer Science, especially with the demand for Computer Science academicians, demand for high calibre Computer Science practitioners for industry, rapid changes in the Computer Science area and the assimilation and institutionalization of Computer Science locally, regionally and globally, which is among several factors that has driven the SCI research agenda.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Information Systems
Course code - P801
The philosophy of the Doctor of Philosophy in Information Systems Programme is to develop and disseminate knowledge in the Information Systems discipline; whilst at the same time influencing Information Systems practitioners’ actions, understanding and policy direction using cutting edge research. In pursuing this philosophy, SCI expects that doctoral candidates shall develop as academic researchers by continuously developing research writing skills as authors of scholarly papers by themselves or co-author with their supervisors for publication in scientific journals and conference proceedings. In addition, the doctoral candidates shall be expected to present findings from their research at various national and international conferences.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Pure Mathematics
Course code -I803
Registration is governed by the common regulation for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the school of Mathematics. Supervised thesis research in chosen area of study for a minimum period of six (6) semesters, quarterly progress reports to Graduate School to confirm the progress of research work.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Financial Mathematics
Course code -I810
Applicants must satisfy the University's general admission criteria for Doctor of Philosophy Degree programmes.The following shall be eligible for admission into the Doctor of Philosophy - Holders of first degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate; Holders Master’s degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Mathematical Statistics
Course code- I817
Applicants must satisfy the University's general admission criteria for Doctor of Philosophy Degree programmes.The following shall be eligible for admission into the Doctor of Philosophy - Holders of first degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate; Holders Master’s degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Mathematics
Course code - I827
Applicants must satisfy the University's general admission criteria for Doctor of Philosophy Degree programmes.The following shall be eligible for admission into the Doctor of Philosophy - Holders of first degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate; Holders Master’s degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Actuarial Science
Course code -I834
Applicants must satisfy the University's general admission criteria for Doctor of Philosophy Degree programmes.The following shall be eligible for admission into the Doctor of Philosophy - Holders of first degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate; Holders Master’s degree in or its equivalent from the University of Nairobi or any other institution recognized by Senate.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry
Course code - I809
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)  in Chemistry covers the traditional branches of chemistry namely organic, inorganic and physical chemistry. It also has courses from other branches of chemistry such as analytical chemistry and industrial chemistry. It seeks to explain factors that course reactions to occur, how they occur and their adverse and non adverse effects on our well being.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Climate Change and adaptation
Course code - I85
The Doctor of Philosophy in Climate Change and Adaptation programme of the University of Nairobi seeks to impart the science and practice of climate change and adaptation. It explores the fundamental changes caused by anthropogenic and natural activities that influence the alteration of the living earth’s environment.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Geology
Course code -I822
The purpose of the Ph.D. in Geology is to provide qualifying students with an in-depth understanding and integrated knowledge of advanced applicable theory in the field of geology. A Ph.D. in Geology is a pure science-based research study that requires candidates to demonstrate high-level research capability and make a significant and original academic contribution nationally and internationally at the frontiers of the discipline of specialization.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Meteorology
Course code - I805
The PhD programme in Meteorology seeks to contribute to the national and global initiatives of responding to weather and climate change effects through capacity building in acquisition advanced knowledge and research in meteorology. The PhD programme in Meteorology  is designed to provide students with advanced theoretical and practical knowledge in Meteorology and it application weather and climate related issue. The programme is designed to meet the needs of those graduates seeking careers in the fields such as Weather prediction, Climate Change Science; Climate Modeling; Agrometeorology, Hydrometeorology, Atmospheric Pollution and Physical Oceanography.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Governance and Management
Course code- A82
In a world fractured by the effects of environmental degradation, political turmoil, economic crises and chronic famine it is self-evident that cultures of peace depend on good governance and equitable access, utilization and distribution of natural resources. Transformative leaders and change agents with a multidisciplinary practical knowledge on resource economy, policy, legal pluralism, community mobilization skills and appropriate participatory approaches are required to assist communities in sustainable utilization of resources as well as develop policy and generate research data that would guide integrated environmental management. In response to needed human capacity in this area, the institute has developed a multidisciplinary and experiential learning program in peace and environmental studies.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Geography and Environmental Studies
Course code- C84
The PhD in Geography & Environmental studies is designed to  to promote environmentally sound development strategies within the framework of national development planning and to suggest realistic options. The program produces graduates able  to analyze and understand environmental concerns and challenges, as well as incorporating environmental considerations in development, planning and decision making.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Physics
Course code -I801
This is a revised Ph.D Program that aims at providing sufficient basis for specialization in the various distinct areas of Physics as a subject. It captures the strengths of the Department in terms of expertise and infrastructure. The goal of the programme is to train high-level and competent research scholars and, in many cases, future university faculty members personnel with the relevant knowledge and refined skills in thematic areas of physics such as condensed Matter Physics, Geo- and Space Physics, Electronics and Instrumentation, Nuclear and Radiation Physics and Laser Physics and Spectroscopy. This is necessary for scientific innovations capable of making transformative contribution to the world of knowledge and further addressing societal challenges of industrial and human resource development for the betterment of humanity.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






