https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-engineering



 












Faculty of Engineering | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Engineering

















Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Bachelor of Science in Biosystems Engineering
Course code – F21
Biosystems Engineers are expected to provide efficient engineering solutions to technical problems involving living things and the natural environment. Students receive a broad exposure to engineering through courses such as mechanics, materials, thermodynamics, electronics and circuits, transport processes, unit operations, instrumentation and design.
They study “life” sciences and ways biological systems interact with the environment. This diverse background makes them capable of understanding the engineering aspects of projects and enables them to operate well through a multidisciplinary approach. The programme includes biosystems and other biology-based production systems, the environment, food and processing systems in agro-industries, energy, machinery systems and structures.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering
Course code - F16
Students pursuing the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering are take courses in applied mechanics, hydraulics, surveying, materials, structures, engineering management, geotechnical engineering, transportation engineering and engineering and environmental health and water resources engineering. Courses in mathematics, computer programming and non-technical subjects are also obligatory in the programme. Throughout their studies, students are encouraged to take part in applied and theoretical research, as well as in practical professional training.
Each semester courses, except for structural design, has 45 contact hours including lectures and tutorials and comprise one course unit. There are practical assignment terms lasting for eight weeks at the end of the third year of study.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Course code - F17
The course has taken into account the latest developments in this field of engineering and the national requirements. Each semester course shall have a total of 45 contact hours including lectures and tutorials and shall comprise one course unit. Laboratories shall have 60 hours per semester and shall comprise one course unit, except in the first year of study when they shall have 45 hours. There shall be a practical assignment term lasting for eight weeks at the end of the third year of study. There shall also be industrial attachment of undergraduate students during the long vacation of the fourth year of study.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Course code - F18
The Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering programme is a 5-year programme that is structured to emphasize both engineering theory and practical skills. These skills will enable students to solve practical problems and analyze different situations by converting concepts into reliable and cost-effective designs of devices and processes.
The programme includes a practical assignment term lasting for eight weeks at the end of the third year of study and industrial attachment of at least eight weeks at the end of fourth year of study.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering
Course code – F22
The Petroleum Engineering undergraduate program at the University of Nairobi is primarily concerned with the economic extraction of oil, gas, and other natural resources from the earth. Producing oil and gas is accomplished through the design, drilling and operation of wells and well systems, and the integrated management of the underground reservoirs in which the resources are found. A minor emphasis of the petroleum engineering programme is the study of transportation of crude and refined petroleum products as well as downstream activities such as storage and distribution of petroleum products.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Geospatial Engineering
Course code - F19
Geospatial Engineering is the art and science of collecting, storing, analyzing, managing and disseminating geospatial information to facilitate rational and optimum use of land resources. With the broadening of applications and growth in technology, Geospatial Engineering now includes analysis of deformation of engineering structures, industrial metrology, analysis of earth deformation due to geodynamic phenomena, and monitoring of satellite orbits within the broad framework of space science and technology. It also extends to the analysis and integration of multi-dimensional geospatial phenomena to facilitate informed decision making by various professionals.
Click here for more information




Master of Science in Environmental and Biosystems Engineering
Course code: - F535
The syllabus takes into account recent scientific and technical advances in the education and training of engineers. It is relevant and broad based in line with the requirements of the engineering profession. To improve on its utility, the programme has been and will continue to be re-aligned to be consistent with the changing needs of the society. It has been developed from a programme of five options to the current five distinct areas of study: Environmental Engineering, Irrigation and Water Resource Engineering, Power and Machinery Engineering, Process and Food Engineering and Structures Engineering, each one addressing a unique engineering need in the society. The programme is targeted towards those graduates who would like to practice at a higher level in industry, research and education.
The course aims to give additional knowledge and necessary skills to the engineering graduates to enable them practice at a higher level in industry, research and education
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
Course code: - F537
The course is intended for engineers with suitable qualifications and/or professional experience who wish to study further or expand their range of expertise in specified field of civil engineering. The options offered are tailored to the requirements of the civil engineering industry. The course contents will enable participants to specialize in any of the five following options. Not all these options will be available in any one year.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Course code: - F546
The course offers opportunities to candidates with suitable qualifications who want to pursue further studies in electrical and electronic engineering. The course has taken into account the latest developments in this field of engineering and the national requirements. The course is offered in two fields; Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Options in these two fields have been carefully grouped into clusters, which define areas of further specialization.
The Master of Science degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering shall be done by coursework, examinations and thesis.t here shall be two fields of specialization:
Electrical Engineering; and Electronic Engineering. The course shall be full time and shall extend for at least two academic years; one academic year for coursework and one academic year for thesis research and writing.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Nuclear Science and Technology
Course code: - S56
The University offers MSc. Degrees in Nuclear Science. To promote globally competitive quality education and training in peaceful applications of nuclear science techniques and associated technologies. The program is designed to enhance multidiscipline research capacity towards building a knowledgeable resource base for sustainable development in line with the aspirations of Kenyans as pronounced in the short and long-term strategic plans of the country and the University of Nairobi. The goal of this programme is to enable learners to assimilate knowledge and acquire competency in current and evolving technologies in peaceful applications of nuclear and associated science techniques in research. Thus, contributing to the development of research capacity and a knowledgeable human resource for sustainable economic and socioeconomic development.
This course aims to help the graduate: Apply knowledge of radiation techniques in the investigation of problems affecting society and development; Illustrate the ability to disseminate scientific knowledge to stakeholders and policymakers; Demonstrate the potential to specialize in the field of nuclear energy production; Produce innovations using nuclear science and associated technologies for the benefit of society.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Course code: - F540
The course is intended for engineers with suitable qualifications and/or professional experience who wish to study further or expand their range of expertise. The course contents will enable students to specialize in any one of the following options: a) Advanced Thermo-Fluids Engineering b) Advanced Applied Mechanics) Industrial Engineering d) Materials Science and Metallurgical Engineering.
Click here for more Information
Master of Science in Energy Management
Course code: - F542
The high cost of energy is one of the most serious constraints to economic growth in Kenya. Currently, it is estimated to account for up to 50% of the production costs in the manufacturing sector. This has resulted in diminished prize competitiveness of locally produced goods and reduced profits for investors. It is anticipated that as the economy grows, demand for energy will increase and this may keep the energy cost high for the next several years.
Energy management is an effective means of reducing energy cost; principally by utilizing energy in the most efficient manner. Energy efficiency is beneficial not only to the economy but also to the environment. The availability of well-trained persons in the different aspects of energy efficiency is a limiting factor to the effective development and implementation of energy efficiency programmes. Master of Science degree course in Energy Management will provide appropriate knowledge and skills for energy management within manufacturing sector, service industries and business enterprises. This will enable the economy to cut energy cost, heighten competitiveness and minimize adverse effects on the environment. In addition, the course will promote entrepreneurship in energy utilization and can lead to Energy Manager certification.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Geographic Information Systems
Course code - F538
The above factors provided the impetus for launching the Master of Science in Geographic Information Systems (MSc (GIS). This programme is designed to accommodate the diverse interests of professionals from different backgrounds currently working or aspiring to work in the GIS industry. This is pertinent especially given the multidisciplinary nature of GIS.
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Environmental & Biosystems Engineering
Course code: F801
Graduates of Doctor of Philosophy in environmental and biosystems engineering are prepared to design engineering solutions and to use technology and data to solve real-world problems in the biological fields of precision agriculture, remote sensing, water management, statistical informatics, data mining, and cyberinfrastructure development.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Civil Engineering
Course code: F802
The course is intended for engineers with suitable qualifications and/or professional experience who wish to contribute to new knowledge or expand their range of expertise in specified field of civil engineering. The research are tailored to the requirements of the civil engineering industry. The course will enable participants to specialize in any of the five thematic areas for civil engineering.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Course code: F804
This PhD program prepares the professionals that the Electrical Engineering industry requires, from engineers and entrepreneurs who will develop new electrical systems and businesses to researchers and theoreticians who will advance the science and technology that underpins these systems.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Nuclear Science and Technology
Course code: S95
To promote globally competitive quality education and training in peaceful applications of nuclear science techniques and associated technologies. The program is designed to enhance critical reasoning, problem-solving, and in-depth analysis through independent research. It is an important aspect of capacity building of a knowledgeable resource base for sustainable development in line with the aspirations of Kenyans as pronounced in the short- and long-term strategic plans of the country and the University of Nairobi. 
The goal of this programme is to produce independent thinkers and highly skilled human reason to support sustainable higher education and to promote Kenyan and regional manpower able to compete in the competitive local and global job market.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Mechanical Engineering
Course code: F807
The program aims to prove a student's ability to conduct independent, creative research. Graduates of this program usually go on to work as professors in universities or as researchers in industry or government research labs.
The duration of the degree programme is 3 academic years (6 Semesters).
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Geographical Information System
Course code - F803
A candidate registered for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy shall carry out a programme of original study or research over a minimum period of 18 months after the date of registration or after completion of any required coursework examination, shall submit a thesis based on the study or research done.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Geospatial Engineering
Course code - F806
A candidate registered for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy shall carry out a programme of original study or research over a minimum period of 18 months after the date of registration or after completion of any required coursework examination, shall submit a thesis based on the study or research done.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






