http://ids.uonbi.ac.ke











University of Nairobi | Institute of Development Studies




















































































 Skip to main content
 









 








UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI
Institute For Development Studies (IDS)













 



 +254-20-4910000

 University of Nairobi     Main Campus    Gandhi Wing   5th Flr



























Header right




UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI
Institute For Development Studies (IDS)






















Main navigation




 Home 


 Research 


 Governance and political economy of development 


 Inclusive development: economic and social dimensions 


 Climate change, natural resources, environment mgt & development 


 Economy, international processes, and Development 


 Social Science Research Data 


 All projects and research studies 




 Researchers 


 News & Events 


 Previous Events 


 Upcoming Events 


 Latest News 


 Photo Gallery 


 COVID-19 Updates 




 Publications 


 Ocassional Papers 


 Discussion Papers 


 Consultancy Reports 


 Working Papers 


 Subject Bibliography 


 Technical Papers 


 Staff Papers 


 Miscellaneous Papers 


 Policy Briefs 


 Published Books 


 IDS Students' Research Archive 




 Graduate Studies 


 Programs 


 Masters in Development Studies (MDev) 


 PhD in Development Studies 




 Students 


 Students Learning 


 Student Resources & Services 


 Student Organisation 


 Information & Support for International Students 


 Graduation 


 Useful Contacts for Students 






 About IDS 


 Media Resources 


 Annual Report 


 Newsletters 




 Community Service 


 Community Engagement 


 Consultancy Services 


 Extension Services 




 Collaborations 


 Partnerships 


 Research Associates 


 Alumni 


 Support IDS 


 Products & Services 


 UoN@50 




 The institute 


 Message from Director 


 Governance 


 IDS Succession Chart 




 Vision & Mission 


 List of staff 


 Academic Staff 


 Administrative Staff 


 Luminary Adjunct Lecturers 


 Project Assistants 




 Service Charter 


 Contact Us 





















Search


Search











































University of Nairobi





 













IDS | University of Nairobi Overview
Institute for Development Studies (IDS), University of Nairobi, is the oldest out of 20 such institutes in the world. It is the premier multi-disciplinary and a multi-purpose development research institute in the Eastern and Southern Africa region.  Discover more









Teaching focus on Development Studies 
Our teaching and research focus is on development studies at the Masters and PhD Levels. The IDS MA in Development Studies covers broad issues of development theory, research and practice. Discover more






















The Institute has been influential in development policy thinking in Kenya and the African region by providing research support to the government, the private sector and civil society as well as international development partners. Research findings by scholars at the IDS influence policy-thinking and anchor decision- making in Kenya. For example, IDS pioneered the concept of SMEs in Kenya through its Jua Kali research and policy articulation in the 1980s. IDS also produced the Kenya National Human Development Report for three consecutive years (2002, 2003, and 2004).
 QuETT Masire | Former Botswana President


















 Research | IDS research, teaching and training priorities are framed into four broad themes 
 




















 Economy, International Processes and Development 


Read More














 Climate Change, Natural Resources Environment Management Development 


Read More














 Governance and Political Economy of Development 


Read More














 Inclusive Development: Economic and Social Dimensions 


Read More



















 Notable Researchers | IDS Renowned Researchers 
 

The Institute has been home to several Nobel Laureates and world-renowned scholars. These include James Tobin, winner of Nobel Prize in Economics (1981); Joseph Stiglitz, Winner of Nobel Prize in Economics (2000); Michael Todaro, the development economist who authored the Todaro Migration Model; James Coleman, a world-renowned sociologist; Bethwell Ogot, a world renowed historian and co-founder of IDS; and Charles Okidi, the first African recipient of the Elizabeth Haub Prize in Environmental law (1984), the highest Global award in environmental law. Many other international scholars started and built their academic careers at the IDS.
 
 
 
View All IDS Research Projects
 
  











 Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz 



Winner of Nobel Prize in Economics (2000). He was a Senior Research Fellow, Social Science Division, Institute for Development Studies, University College, Nairobi (under Rockefeller Foundation Grant), 1969-1971.










 Prof. Bethwell Ogot 



A world-renowned historian and co-founder of IDS.  An author, historian, and scholar, Prof.Ogot is one of Africa's pre-eminent scholars. He specialises in African history, research methods, and theory.




















 News | Latest News & Announcements 
 


























 Hivos SRHR Project Close-out 

  













 The Carnegie Project Methodology Workshop 

  













 The Carnegie Project Country Teams 

  













 Kenya’s Good Governance Moment 

  













 What do Kenyans Know About Devolution? Survey Evidence on Political Knowledge and Public Opinion 

  







 















 Events | Upcoming Workshops, Seminars and other Events 
 




























23
September





Learning and Capabilities Development - Case Studies of East African Social Enterprises


 2:00 P.M - 4:00 PM   -   Virtual/Online 


 
 It has been recognised that social enterprises are a key part of the enterprise landscape in developing countries.
 









 















 Postgraduate Studies | Enroll to IDS for a full time Masters and PhD Programme in Development Studies. 
 
















IDS teaching, training and research is framed into the following thematic areas:

Governance and Political Economy of Development
Inclusive Development: Economic and Social Dimensions
Climate Change, Natural Resources Environment Management Development
Economy, International Processes and Development

 









160
+

Total no of Alumni











18
+

IDS Staff











2

Academic Programmes





































 Programmes 









 Graduate Support 









 How to Apply 














































Student Resources

Apply Online
Student Portal
Students Email
E-repository 
UoN Journals
IDS Students








Information On

Media Gallery
Alumni
Partnerships








Information About

Intellectual Property Management Office
Intellectual Property Policy
Quality Assurance
Research Innovation & Enterprise
Library
 
 








Contact info



 Main Campus | Gandhi Wing | 5th Flr 
 020-491000 or 020-3318262 
 director-ids@uonbi.ac.ke 



















We are professional and reliable provider since we offer customers the most powerful and beautiful themes. Besides, we always catch the latest technology and adapt to follow world’s new trends to deliver the best themes to the market.






















