http://tukenya.ac.ke/






















The Technical University of Kenya | TU-K




































Home
Library
Research
I-Repository
Staff Mail
October 2021 Intake
Student's Portal
Staff e-portal
e-Learning Portal
Contacts
New Students' Registration Portal
 
 
















Menu


About TU-KTU-K Profile
GovernanceThe Chancellor
The University Council
The Senate

ManagementThe Vice-Chancellor
The University Management Board

AdministrationAdministration, Planning and Infrastructure
Technology, Innovation and Partnerships
Academic and Student Affairs

ProfessorsFull Professors
Associate Professors


AcademicsFacultiesEngineering and the Built Environment
Social Sciences and Technology
Applied Sciences and Technology

Examinations
Undergraduate ProgrammesDescription of Bachelor of Technology Programmes
Bachelors Degree Courses
Diploma Courses

Postgraduate Programmes
Library

AdmissionAdmission Lists
Advertised Courses
Prospective Students
Scholarships and Grants

Students SupportDirector of Students
Sports and Recreation
Message to Students New Students
News from the Directorate
Chaplaincy
Clubs and Associations
Religious Groups
Staff
Student Downloads
Student Welfare
SATUK Constitution
Student Leadership

 














 
 Blood Donation Drive 
 ... 



 
 3rd Kenya Universities Drama, Film & Music Festivals 
 ... 



 
 Academic Procession during the 7th Graduation Ceremony 
 
 



 
 The VC and other Professors during the 7th Graduation Ceremony 
 
 



 
 VC Attends 2nd Edition of Kenya Day in France 
 ... 





Previous
Pause
Next




 
 









Vision, Mission and Values




 
Vision
To be a top rated University of technology
 
Mission 
To provide technological education and training and to contribute towards the advancement of society through research and innovation 
Motto
 Education and training for the real... More about Vision, Mission and Values 

 
 


 


Governance


The Vice Chancellor
Prof. Francis W. O. Aduol is the Vice-Chancellor of the Technical University of Kenya . >> Read More 

 


 


TU-K Events and Notices




 Available Capacities During the 2020 2022 Admission Cycle 
 Date: Thursday, January 20, 2022 
 Declared Capacities for Module I and Module II programmes during the 2022-... More on Available Capacities During the 2020 2022 Admission Cycle 

 Student Centre Service Providers 
 Date: Wednesday, January 19, 2022 
 This is a reminder that ALL CONTRACTS signed by the service providers at the... More on Student Centre Service Providers 

 CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
 Date: Thursday, January 13, 2022 
 The Technical University of Kenya invites applications from suitably... More on CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 



 View all events and Notices >> 

 
 


 











Latest News





Read more about Latest News
 
 

 





 Matunda Ya Uhuru - Mass University Students' Choirs (Kenyatta University, UoN & TUK) 
 
 

 TU-K Nanosatellite launched at Konza Technopolis 
 The Technical University of Kenya, Department of Astronomy and Space Sciences launched a nanosatellite dubbed TUKSat-1, at Konza Technopolis on a 1U Model nanosatellite demo event organised by Kenya Space Agency (KSA).
The demo event provided an avenue to witness the functionality of the nanosatellite systems to a panel of judges, participating universities as well as the event conveners -KAS.
As part of promotion of activities for the development of space systems, The Kenya Space Agency had initiated a research chair for the development of 1U nanosatellites. Subsequently, 5 public... Full story on TU-K Nanosatellite launched at Konza Technopolis 

 DAAD In-Country/In-Region Scholarship Programmes 2021/2022 
 DAAD In-Country/In-Region Scholarship Programmes 2021/2022 for graduates & postgraduates from Sub-Saharan Africa (Fully Funded study in Germany) | Opportunities For Africans. 
The In-Country/In-Region programme in developing countries aims to contribute to train highly qualified professionals and managerial staff for sustainable development in the partner countries and for the development of top-quality, cosmopolitan universities. The programme thus offers scholarships to future university teachers from developing countries for postgraduate courses and for doctorates. They study at... Full story on DAAD In-Country/In-Region Scholarship Programmes 2021/2022 

 Engineers Board of Kenya seeks to set prices for Engineering services 
 The Engineers Board of Kenya is among the professional bodies that are pushing to set minimum prices for services offered in the industry. The engineer’s body has proposed setting up of a price floor for all engineering services arguing that this will ensure quality services, safety and welfare to the public.
 This move however has been opposed by the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) which is the body mandated to ensuring that there is a competitive market and ensuring consumer protection. Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) has argued that fixing of the prices and fees will make... Full story on Engineers Board of Kenya seeks to set prices for Engineering services 



 View All News >> 

 
 

 TU-K Road Safety 



 







TU-K Faculties




  
Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering

School of Architecture and Spatial Planning

School of Construction and Property Studies

School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering

School of Surveying and Spatial Sciences

School of Civil and Resource Engineering

School of Chemical and Biological Systems Engineering

School of Aerospace and Vehicle Engineering

Centre for Energy, Materials, and Sustainability
Institute for Spatial Analysis and Regional Development

Faculty of Social Sciences and Technology
School of Business and Management Studies

School of Creative Arts and Media

School of Hospitality and Human Ecology

School of Information and Social Studies

Centre for Science and Technology Studies

Centre for Language and Communication Studies


Faculty of Applied Sciences and Technology
School of Biological and Life Sciences

School of Physics and Earth Sciences

School of Computing and Information Technologies

School of Health and Biomedical Sciences

School of Mathematics and Actuarial Science

School of Chemistry and Material Science

Centre for Earth System and Space Sciences
Centre for Intergrated Water Resources Management

 

 
 












ISO Certification



 

Social Network

 
 

Locate Us




 
 

 
 


 


Quick Links


TU-K Partners and Stakeholders 
Library
Research and Publications
Institutional Repository
Archive
Job Vacancies
Global and Community Engagement
Tenders
Internationally Bench-Marked Training for Industry


Careers Portal
Conferences
Staff e-Portal
Staff Welfare Portal
Alumni
E-Learning
Downloads
Sports and Recreation
The Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU) 
TUK Christian Union


 


 


Resources


Kenet Web Conference

Fee Statement

Student's Portal

Student's Mail

Class List

Staff Mail

Sessional lecturers application
TU-K Commitment to National Values and Principles of Governance
Public Service (Values and Principles) Act
Fee Payment Policy


Staff Documents

Media Server

eBioKit

Multi-Media Gallery 

Wealth Declaration Form 

2017-2018 Values and Principles Compliance Evaluation Report Template

Careers Portal
Training Portal
Mock Portal
Intake (student application portal)



Quality Management System
 QMS 9001-2015 Manual

Quality Objectives and Quality Policy

 The Scope

Service Charter - Revised 2018
Hati ya Utoaji Huduma

 
 


 



Copyright © 2022,The Technical University of Kenya | Site developed and maintained by DICTs.


