http://sbhrd.rongovarsity.ac.ke





School of Business








































Skip to content







 





Main Menu




Home
About Us
AcademicsMenu Toggle

Diploma and Certificate
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Academic Staff


DepartmentsMenu Toggle

Department Of Business Studies
Dept of Human Resource, Tourism and Hospitality


ResearchMenu Toggle

Publications
Thesis
CMDPS


News
Main Site
 

 
 
























Students on attachment At Lalanaoi LodgeRead more 


 
















 




Undergraduate Studies 



We offer a quality teaching and experience to our undergraduate students.











 




Masters Studies 



We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our graduate students.











 




Doctorate studies 



We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our doctorate students.


















 





Prof. John Ernest Odada 



 Dean, School of Business. view profile.










Welcome Message 



We live in a knowledge economy and networked society where communication system compete ,our identities threatened, and our knowledge of major political, social and cultural happenings constantly challenged.We need therefore, to ask fundamental questions about how the ability of technological transformation is creating an interface between technological fields through common digital language in which information is generated, stored, retrieved, processed and transmitted. We experience today a global economy characterized by new modes of information flow and cultural communication.The school provides courses for talent and skills for the rising network society characterized by electronic – based information technologies using digital language for global communication and in commercial, scientific and civil applications. The perspective is to provide trained man power under the impact of information technologies in research, offices, industrial plants and services.Read More
































Current News & Events 









SBHRD Online Students Orientation of Students 
















 










Guide to Thesis/Project Supervision 



Supervising a thesis student is not difficult. However it is a scary experience for inexperienced
supervisors. I recall my own insecurity when asked to supervise my first thesis candidate (Alfred
Shem Ouma– then a Masters student) barely after a Master’s Programme myself. I remember
complaining to my chairman that I was too inexperienced for the task pointing out that the
student was almost my academic equal. I also do remember my mentor’s (Prof. Germano
Mwabu) response that it was the best way to get experience. This dismissive (though not
arrogant) answer has resulted in many Masters and PhD supervision and mentoring that I am
very proud of. I therefore dedicate this discussion to Dr. Alfred Shem Ouma, who acted as my
Guinea pig and Professor German Mwabu my mentor whose push and shove has made me who I
am.
This discussion is not an academic treatise, but rather a practical guide to the upcoming
supervisors. It is a result of many years of supervising candidates at Masters and PhD levels of
study. It is also informed by examination of guidelines by famed scholars plying their trade in
equally famed institutions of higher learning. It is foolhardy to say this work is original hence I
acknowledge benefiting from the following sources amongst many:

i. Australia Catholic University
ii. University of Melbourne
iii. University of Notre Dame, Australia
Thus, the presentation and discussions gave insights on;
i. Where to get supervisory experience;
ii. Tips on preparations for supervision;
iii. Actual supervising tips;
iv. Tips on methodology chapter;
v. Tips on interpretation of results;
vi. Tips on finalizing the Thesis/Project.

Presenter: Prof. John Almadi Obere

 



GUIDE TO SUPERVISION 










 











 











 























school of 



Business 



Goldmine of Knowlege and Innovation
















Be Part of us



















Our alumni



















Enquires


























Dean, School of Business & Human Resource Development,Rongo University,P.O. Box 103-40404, RONGOEmail: dean-business@rongovarsity.ac.ke










Social Media 



Stay Connected 














Twitter





Facebook





Pinterest





Vimeo





Instagram


























QUICK STATS 












0


Departments














1


Programmess














1


Lecturers






















 







						Copyright © 2022 School of Business | Powered by Astra 






















