https://www.acupajoey.com/







A Cup A Joey





































 
 
 A Cup A Joey
 
 
 




















































 About
 

 Book
 

Offerings


 Motherhood Tales
 

 Book Reviews
 

 Dear Joey
 

 Contact
 







Back


 Children Book Project
 

 African Library Book Drive
 

 Donating Books For The African Library Book Drive
 






































































AboutBook
Offerings

Children Book Project
African Library Book Drive
Donating Books For The African Library Book Drive

Motherhood TalesBook ReviewsDear JoeyContact





 
 
 A Cup A Joey
 
 
 











Scroll






  












 I live, not to merely exist, but to create, transform, and inspire.



 

















  NEW book COMING SOON 









Irony offal before they sold out master cleanse kitsch cardigan normcore tofu venmo. Ugh trust fund echo park chicharrones locavore try-hard copper mug gluten-free la croix pork belly. Food truck migas tofu, roof party next level franzen artisan tote bag vape vaporware actually ugh crucifix ethical etsy. Pickled plaid woke, cronut tacos pop-up 8-bit franzen. 


 BUY THE BOOK
 






 



LET'S TALK MISSION
I would love to connect with anyone who can appreciate a great read, a budding author who is looking for fresh eyes and help to gain exposure for their work, or any and everyone looking to support causes that help pass down a love for literature to the next generation. If you signed up for my Monthly Book Giveaway, then I know you are already with me on this mission! If not, JOIN ME as I build a community of book lovers who can make a difference. 





First Name



Last Name




Email Address






Sign Up





We respect your privacy.
Thank you!



  







 NICE TO E-MEET YOU!









 I thought I worked hard until I became a Mother. No hard labor can compare to being a parent and there is no rule book to Motherhood. Thank goodness because I would've probably broken all of them by now. Here I am inviting you to enjoy the reality of Motherhood with me.


 MORE ABOUT JOEY
 

 









 MORE ABOUT A CUP A JOEY












Children Book Project
They perform better academically, they develop empathy and they gain a deeper understanding of their World, those are some of the benefits when a child has access to books.



Read More



















African Library Book Drive
The Future depends on our children. What we place in their minds will ultimately shape their and our World’s destiny.



Donate



















Coaching
Rust fund shoreditch snackwave vegan celiac pickled godard photo booth authentic migas cardigan roof party intelligentsia twee.



Book Now


















 inspirations






















“When we give cheerfully and accept gratefully, everyone is blessed.”

— Maya Angelou




“There is always light. If only we’re brave enough to see it. If only we’re brave enough to be it.”

— Amanda Gorman
















 family and books!

































Home Header



Home Promo



Newsletter



Home About



Featured



Inspirations



Family and Books!












FOLLOW @gijoey



















































Subscribe
Before you go, Join My Tribe!Don't miss out on a new review or story of my motherhood trials and errors, by leaving your name and email below.  You will also be automatically entered into my Monthly Book Giveaway and occasionally receive emails about causes related to promoting reading among kids.




Email Address






Sign Up





We respect your privacy.
Thank you!

























Design by Go Live HQ - Photos by Unsplash







