https://www.cc.ac.mw/library



				The Library -
 
			University of Malawi
		




























University of Malawi








 Calendar |
		 Support |
		 Mail






About

UNIMA at a Glance
Map & Directions
Zomba City
FAQ


Administration

Vice Chancellor
Vice Chancellor
Director of Student Affairs
Director of Finance & Investments
Registrar
Deputy Vice Chancellor
Deputy Vice Chancellor
Council

Public Documents


News & Events
Faculties

Faculty of Science
Faculty of Law
Faculty of Education
Faculty of Social Science
Faculty of Humanities


Departments
Centres
Studies

Bachelors Degree Studies
Masters Degree Studies
Doctorate Degree Studies
Other Studies


People

Students
Staff
Prospective Students


Unions

Academic Staff Union
Students Union


Publications

Books
Newsletters
Research Papers
Library


Alumni

Applications

Post-graduate
Law











Jump To

Clinic
Cafetaria
Chapel
Chanco Radio
Senior Common Room
Junior Common Room
The Great Hall
Sports Complex
Library
NBS Bank@Campus




Popular In News

UNIMA Negotiates Loan Facilities with FDH Bank
Vice President Praises UNIMA Construction Projects
UNIMA Shares Development Plans with Zomba CEOs
TNM Offers Zero-Rating Charges for UNIMA
UNIMA Holds First-Ever Virtual Graduation





The Library




E-Resources    Library Catalogue    Research Papers  Zotero 
The principal function of libraries in any educational facility is to support teaching and research. This is no exception at Chancellor College. The college library is located directly in front of the main quadrangle. 
The library is an integral part of the college’s mission which revolves around teaching, research and consultancy.

Services
The library provides information services to library users within and outside the university community. These services include:

 Lending of library materials,
 Traditional and electronic reference services and selective dissemination of information (SDI).

Other services provided by the library include research, publication and consultancy, information literacy and computer training for library users and conference facilities.
 
Sections in the Library
The first floor of the library houses several sections:

 One of these is the Reserve Counter—for particular college, United Nations and allied agencies publications, journals and periodicals.
 This floor also houses the American Corner—which is run and maintained by the American Embassy in Malawi in order to encourage cultural exchange between American and Malawi, as well as to encourage study abroad.
 The Law Section – which is a legal depository for materials on the Malawian legal system, government publications and documents affiliated to the governance and policy of the nation – is also on the first floor.
 Lastly, this floor also houses the Malawiana section, which curates publications particular to Malawian scholarship (including Masters and PhD Theses by Chancellor College Staff), literature and history.  

The second floor of the library is the general and open shelf. Here the library provides access to both print and electronic information resources including number of print and electronic journals and books.

It maintains a collection of more than 300,000 titles and a number of electronic journal databases mostly under the PERI/INASP program. All these can be accessed with the bank of computers available to students.
The second floor of the main library is also home to the Chinese Corner—which is run and maintained by the Chinese Embassy in Malawi in order to encourage cultural exchange, learning of mandarin for Malawians and increase dialogue between China and Malawi at the academy. 
Studying in the Library
The library has a large sitting capacity. Students organize themselves depending on their study needs. Post-graduate students may access cubicles for isolated research and undisturbed study. Cubicles can be booked and paid for at the main issue counter.  

Under the Hood
The ground floor of this imposing building houses computer laboratories, e-learning classrooms, the college bindery, and a student bookshop. 









University of Malawi

 P.O Box 280
 Zomba.
 Malawi, Central Africa


   01 524 222
   registrar@unima.ac.mw




Places

Clinic
Cafetaria
Chapel
Chanco Radio
Senior Common Room
Junior Common Room
The Great Hall
Sports Complex
NBS Bank@Campus
Library



Students

Student Accomodation
Student Activities
Student Affairs
Student Organizations
Student Spiritual Life
Student Sports & Recreation
Student Portal
New Students
International Students
E-Learning



Staff

Staff Directory
Staff Portal
Google Classroom
Academic Calendar
Registrar Office
Staff Organizations
Staff Sports & Recreation
UNIMED
Alumni Register
Offices & Services 






Copyright © 2022 - All Rights Reserved - University of Malawi
 Developed by University of Malawi ICT Centre





