http://sass.rongovarsity.ac.ke





School of Sass








































Skip to content







 





Main Menu




Home
About Us
AcademicsMenu Toggle

Diploma and Certificate
Undergraduate
PostgraduateMenu Toggle

Masters


Academic Staff


DepartmentsMenu Toggle

Dept of Economics & Humanities
Dept of Languages, Linguistics & Literature
Dept of Social Sciences


ResearchMenu Toggle

Publications
Thesis
CMDPS


News
Main Site
 

 
 
























 
Full 1 PhD Defense sessionMutuku Kavoi ,a PhD Kiswahili Student after his succesful thesis defense on 22/9/2019
Read moreFull 1 - copy PhD Defense sessionRead moreFull 2 PhD Defense sessionRead moreFull 2 - copy PhD Defense sessionNixon Sangili,a PhD Student during his defence on 3/10/2019
Read more 



 
















 




Undergraduate Studies 




We offer a quality teaching and experience to our undergraduate students. 











 




Masters Studies 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our graduate students. 











 




Doctorate studies 




We offer a unique experience and opportunity to work to our doctorate students. 

















 




Prof. Michael Ntabo Mabururu 




Dean, School of SASS. view profile. 










Welcome Message 




The School of Arts and social Sciences was established in the year 2012. It provides quality, innovative and baccalaureate education that imports the requisite knowledge in humanities and social sciences.The school trains innovative, skilled and competent graduates ready for employment, research and create jobs while taking into consideration sustainable utilization of resources..It competent academic and administrative staff with a wealth of experience in teaching, research and community service. 
























Current News & Events 









SASS Online Orientation of Students 




 

















 











 










Title of thesis: Impediments to parental prevention of teenage pregnancies in Narok, North Sub County, Narok County Kenya.


By: Elon Midigo Akuno
Supervisors: Dr. Taji Shivachi and Prof. Wilson Otenga 



The Science and Religion Club of Kenya 










 











 











 










The Science and Religion Club of Kenya (SRCK), Rongo University Chapter was launched on Thursday, 11th March 2021. SRCK is an initiative of the Christian Scientific Association of Kenya (CSAK), which is the premier body that promotes constructive science-religion dialogue. CSAK is a professional, apolitical and non-sectarian network of more than 350 scientists drawn from more than 30 universities and research bodies in Kenay.
SRCK aims at fostering synergetic interaction between science and religion, and to promote character development among University students. 

The SRCK Rongo University Chapter was launched by the CSAK project director, Prof. Francis Muregi. Present were the club patron Prof. Michael Ntabo, CSAK members Dr. Taji Shivachi, Dr. Damaris Nyakoe, Dr. Omondi Odero, Dr. James Ontieri, Mr. Moses Obama, Ms Maureen Kwamboka. Also present were the SRCK Rongo Chairman Hillary and other officials, as well as club members
 























school of 



SASS 




Goldmine of Knowlege and Innovation 
















Be Part of us



















Our alumni



















Enquires
































Social Media 



Stay Connected 




Dean School of Arts & Social Sciences,Rongo University ,P.O. Box 103-40404, RONGOEmail: dean-arts@ruc.ac.ke 















Twitter





Facebook





Pinterest





Vimeo





Instagram


























QUICK STATS 












0


Departments














1


Programmess














1


Lecturers






















 







						Copyright © 2022 School of Sass | Powered by Astra 


























