https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-veterinary-medicine



 












Faculty of Veterinary Medicine | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Veterinary Medicine

















Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine
Course code - J30
The Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine programme is designed to train personnel with the requisite knowledge and skills to work as veterinary surgeons, animal scientists and nutritionists, veterinary pharmacists, public health officers and epidemiologists.
The degree programme responds to the emerging needs by addressing animals in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL) regions, emphasizing acquisition of practical skills including entrepreneurship. At the end, the students are well equipped with the necessary knowledge and skills to meet the market expectations.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Science in Leather and Technology
Course Code-  J36
The Kenyan economy is largely based on Agriculture, which contributes 30% of the Gross Domestic Product. Ten percent of this is derived from the livestock sector. The need to improve capacity in the livestock sector, therefore, cannot be overemphasized. While the sectors dealing with primary livestock products such as milk, have been taken care of, the leather industry has largely been neglected. Graduates of this course will  enhance application of leather technology for application at grassroots, national and international levels. Examples of such services would include animal husbandry, slaughtering and flaying, hides and skins improvement, leather tanning, leather goods manufacture and business. 
Click here for more information. 
Bachelor of Science in Fisheries and Aquaculture Management 
Course Code- J49
Fisheries and aquaculture contribute to food and nutritional security and sustain the livelihoods of many households which are engaged in subsistence or related commercial activities. Despite the increased demand for fish and fish products for local and export markets, the subsector is threatened by environmental pollution, degradation of wetland ecosystems (including water hyacinth), habitat and biodiversity loss, and inadequate feeds and fish fingerlings. Although the economic stimulus package for construction of fish ponds is a noble idea, the shortage of skilled human resource is one of the major constraints to the optimal performance
of the enterprise.
Click here for more information 
Bachelor of Science in Wildlife Management and Conservation 
Course Code- J42
The BSc. degree in wildlife is designed to produce personnel with the requisite knowledge and skills to work in wildlife, fisheries, tourism, environment and related fields. Wildlife, fisheries and tourism are key sectors in national economies. This requirement demands adequate capacity building in both personnel and technology. The above sectors are expanding rapidly and so is the demand for the relevant skilled personnel. In recognition of this demand, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine together with Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS) have teamed up to offer a hands-on, practical oriented training in these fields. The combined resources of these two institutions in terms of manpower and facilities are best placed to provide this training. 
Click here for more information 




Master of Science in Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
Course code- J515
A new “intensive” curriculum in agriculture that incorporates significant animal science content has been developed. The curriculum for bachelor of veterinary medicine degree has also been reviewed. There is need to maintain the popularity of the programme through making inclusion of suitable content and thesis projects that address practical nutritional challenges. The content will incorporate core generic animal production courses and specialized animal nutrition content all focusing on animal science problem identification and solving. The expected result will be a more appropriate and attractive programme that will be completed within stipulated time period.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Animal Genetics & Breeding 
Course code –J521
The Master Of Science In Animal Genetics & Breeding degree programme is intended Equip genetics  and animal breeders with knowledge and skills in animal genetics and breeding to enhance sustainable management of animal genetics resources. As well as train manpower to undertake academic responsibility in research, consultancies and teaching in animal genetics and breeding. Learners are trained to document and conserve animal biodiversity and apply biotechnology in livestock improvement.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Livestock Production Systems 
Course code – J522
The Master of Science in Livestock Production Systems is designed to Equip production system analysts with knowledge and skills in livestock systems analysis to help integrate components of production systems for sustainable use of resources and improved livestock productivity.  The Degree programs trains personnel to undertake academic responsibility in research, consultancy and teaching in livestock production systems as well as equip the analysts with ability to document, evaluate and monitor production systems.
Click here for more information 
Master of Science Pharmacology and Toxicology
Course code - J527
The Master of Science Degree in Pharmacology and Toxicology is designed for Veterinary, Medical and other graduates involved in the protection and improvement of animals and human health and environment.  The post-graduate programme is intended to train graduates to conduct research, teach in academic institutions and also undertake other related duties in government service and private sector. Graduates will be exposed to a broad study of drugs, poisonous compounds, environmental pollutants, analytical techniques, recent advances in Pharmacology and Toxicology research.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Natural Products and Bio-Prospecting
Course code - J534
Students can pursue careers in natural  Products science, scope and relationship with other disciplines; historical trends and advances in Natural Products Local, Regional and Global; types and sources of natural products; Biodiversity; Taxonomy  and ecology of sources of selected NP e.g. plants, fungi, bacteria, animal origin.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Veterinary Public Health (Mvph)
Course code - J530
This program endeavors to make learners understand the role of Veterinary Public Health in ensuring the health and well being of man through provision of safe and wholesome food, prevention and control of emerging zoonotic diseases, enhancement of local and international trade in food animal their products, as well environmental protection. The program aims to prepare learners for lifelong learning; to seek knowledge and use it to solve public health and environmental problems affecting mankind; to be creative in their thinking and innovative in solving public health issues affecting society; be a team player and a proactive participant in public health and related programs and activities. The program will develop learners’ ability to identify, analyze and determine the origin and trends of emerging zoonotic diseases, food and environmental hazards and to design, implement, monitor and evaluate public health and environmental protection programs that are key in uplifting the health status and well being of society. The course is designed to cater for veterinarians and other qualified public health personnel interested in utilizing Veterinary Public Health knowledge and skill in solving public health and environmental challenges affecting society.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics
Course code - J526
This programme will ensure that the department produces graduates who can contribute in national and regional development through effective disease control and prevention through collection, collation and evaluation of data on animal diseases both at County and national levels, advising governments on the present and future disease control policies, evaluation of the effectiveness of animal health and disease control programmes, conducting field based research, and participation in emergency preparedness and response to transboundary animal diseases, pandemics and other One Health Challenges.Need assessment for the review of this curriculum was undertaken and it involved stakeholders from both public and private sectors.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology and Parasitology
Course code - J514
The overall goal of this program is to develop human resource with technical expertise in Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology and Parasitology for effective diagnosis, control, innovative research and training on diseases of terrestrial and aquatic animals.Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology and Parasitology program will provide world-class quality university education and training that will enable the learner to create, preserve, integrate and transmit knowledge and skills to meet the needs of the Kenyan people and global community at large.
Click here for more information
Master of Science Clinical Pathology and Laboratory Diagnosis
Course code - J519
Livestock sector in Kenya is projected to grow exponentially by 2050 to meet the needs for animal products by a human population that is expected to double from 47 million in 2019 to 96 million by 2050. Consequently, proportionate demand for animal health services will increase to control the burden of livestock diseases that will rise in number and diversity, as the expanding human and livestock population impacts negatively on environment and climate. Efficient diagnostic services will be increasingly required to support disease control. The Clinical Pathology and Laboratory Diagnosis program will provide trained personnel with requisite knowledge and skills to support laboratory diagnosis of livestock diseases, as well as research and training in Clinical Pathology for local, regional and international markets.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Wildlife Health and Management
Course code - J524
The programme is geared towards excellence of knowledge in wildlife science, health and management in view of Kenya being a country rich in wildlife resource and diverse nature, which is evident in variety of wild animals. The programme will train graduate students who will be experts in this management, utilization, and conservation.              
Click here for more information
Master of Veterinary Medicine 
Course code - J536
Medicine is a specialized clinical veterinary discipline designed for equipping veterinarians to enable them deal with diagnosis, treatment and control of disease conditions affecting animals as well as those that are zoonotic. The programme meets the demand for mitigation of animal disease challenges that impact negatively on animal productivity, reproduction and welfare.  The number of veterinary specialists in this discipline is low and hence the need for this programme.
Click here for more information
Master of Veterinary Theriogenology 
Course code - J540
The diminishing land size and prevailing climate change necessitates an improvement in reproductive management strategies as well as availing appropriate animals that are able to withstand these changes. Reproductive wastage constitutes a large part of potential genetic loss in animals worldwide. Reproductive management strategies and reproducing animals with desirable traits can only be successful by having graduates that pursue advanced Theriogenology, which will enable them to carry out relevant research. Graduates from this course will be equipped with the necessary skills to tackle challenges facing the animal industry.
Click here for more information
Master of Veterinary Surgery 
Course code - J541
The programme is necessary for equipping the Graduate Veterinarian with various surgery specialty skills that would enable them tackle surgical problems in animals with hands-on precision required for good outcome. The graduate veterinarian also matches the regional and global advancement in the Surgery discipline. The programme enables one to develop skills required for effective conducting of research. The specialty areas of advancement include current concepts of principles of veterinary surgery, veterinary diagnostic imaging, soft tissue surgery, veterinary orthopedics and dentistry, anesthesiology, emergency and critical care.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Veterinary Anatomy and Cell Biology
Course code -J539 
The philosophy of MSc.  in Anatomy and Cell Biology is to develop and disseminate knowledge in the area of  Anatomy and Cell Biology and related disciplines in animals from a comparative perspective. The intention of the training is to influence the actions and understanding of biologists towards policy implementation using cutting edge research. The candidates undertaking this programme shall be expected to present findings from the research projects in seminars, workshops as well as at national and internal conferences.
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Comparative Animal Physiology
Course code- J542
The philosophy of MSc. in Comparative Animal Physiology is to develop and disseminate knowledge in the area of comparative physiology of vertebrates. The intention of the training is to provide learners with an in-depth undertaking through specific options of animal physiology so as to achieve skills in academic excellence in research and other institutions of higher learning. It is aimed at equipping professionals working in Biomedical Sciences with cutting-edge knowledge in physiology that will improve their working skills. The candidates undertaking this programme shall be expected to present findings from the research projects in seminars, workshops as well as at national and internal conferences. UoN recognizes the dynamic nature and emerging trends in Animal Physiology, its importance to researchers working in all areas of animal science and particularly Veterinary Medicine, so as to meet organizational, community and societal needs. All these complexities shall guide this MSc. programme research goals and objectives.
Click here for more information




Doctor of Philosophy in Livestock Production Systems
Course code - J84
Doctor of Philosophy in Animal Genetics and Breeding
Course code - J86
Doctor of Philosophy in Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
Doctor of Philosophy in Natural Products and Bio-Prospecting
Course code - J99
The candidates will be required to carry out their thesis research under supervision and subsequently compile a thesis which would be presented for examination in the prescribed manner for Doctoral Thesis in all faculties.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmacology and Toxicology
Course code - J85
The candidates will be required to carry out their thesis research under supervision and subsequently compile a thesis which would be presented for examination in the prescribed manner for Doctoral Thesis in all faculties.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Public Health
Course code - J91
The overall goal of this programme is to build capacity and impart skills in veterinarians and other health practitioners on Veterinary Public Health for prevention and control of zoonotic diseases,food and environmental protection and enhancement of local and international trade in animals and the products.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Epidemiology and Economic
Course code - J92
The overall goal of this programme is to build capacity and impart skills in veterinarians and other health practitioners to analyze the effectiveness of various animal disease control and prevention strategies that would empower the society.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology and Parasitology
Course code - J808
Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Clinical Studies
Course code - J87
PhD in Clinical Studies is an essential programme for those who intend to specialize further in any of the three disciplines constituting clinical practice. These disciplines include Medicine, Surgery and Theriogenology. This is most useful for those who are in the veterinary clinical teaching career and those in private veterinary practice who want to excel not only in general practice but in these three clinical discipline areas with an inquisitive rational problem-solving mindset. Those interested in pursuing clinical research that would lead to evidence-based innovative clinical solutions will without a doubt need to pursue a PhD in Clinical Studies. PhD in Clinical Studies will broadly equip the candidate with knowledge that rationally integrates the three clinical disciplines in spite of specializing in the area of interest among the three disciplines.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Comparative Animal Physiology
Course code- J90
The program is to produce highly skilled researchers with capacity to innovate, interrogate and make inferences on intricate issues on physiological and related sciences, using integrative, explorative and investigative approaches. The graduates from the program will represent a critical mass of future potential key researchers, all trained in interdisciplinary research, while still representing different scientific traditions and backgrounds and forming an inspiring and cross-pollinating research circle. The researchers will be in a position to address issues related to ambiguities, in physiological and related sciences, train and supervise postgraduate students at masters and doctoral levels. Additionally, the graduates will form a pool of trainers for universities worldwide.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Anatomy and Cell Biology
Course code- J80
The program is to produce highly skilled researchers with capacity to innovate, interrogate and make inferences on intricate issues on anatomical and related sciences, using integrative, explorative and investigative approaches. The graduates from the program will represent a critical mass of future potential key researchers, all trained in interdisciplinary research, while still representing different scientific traditions and backgrounds and forming an inspiring and cross-pollinating research circle. The researchers will be in a position to address issues related to ambiguities, in anatomical and related sciences, train and supervise postgraduate students at masters and doctoral levels. Additionally, the graduates will for a pool of trainers for universities worldwide.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






