https://uonbi.ac.ke/faculty-social-sciences



 












Faculty of Social Sciences | University of Nairobi































































 Notable Alumni 




 Covid-19 Info 




 Faculties & Departments 










Faculty of Agriculture


 Agricultural Economics 
 Food Science, Nutrition & Technology 
 Land Resource Management & Agricultural Technology
 Plant Science & Crop Protection 




Faculty of Arts



Linguistics, Languages and Literature 

 History and Archeology 

Philosophy and Religious Studies 

Library and Information Science 
 

Faculty of Built Environment



Art and Design 

 Architecture 

 Real Estate, Construction Management & Quantity Surveying 

 Urban and Regional Planning 
 



FACULTY OF BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT SCIENCES


 Business Administration 
 Finance and Accounting 
 Management Science and Project Planning




FACULTY OF EDUCATION





Educational Management, Policy and Curriculum Studies 

Educational Communication and Pedagogical Studies 
 




Physical Education and Sport 

Educational Foundations 

Educational and Distance Studies 
 





FACULTY OF ENGINEERING





Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering 

Civil and Construction Engineering 
 




Electrical and Information Engineering 

Environmental and Biosystems Engineering 
 





Geospatial and Space Technology. 
 
FACULTY OF LAW 






FACULTY OF HEALTH SCIENCES





Dental sciences 

 Nursing Sciences 

 Public and Global Health 

 Surgery 

 Human Anatomy & Physiology 







 Clinical Medicine & Therapeutics 

 Paediatrics and Child Health 

 Obstetrics & Gynecology 

 Human Pathology 

 Psychiatry 






 Diagnostic Imaging & Radiation Medicine 

 Medical Microbiology and Immunology 

 Pharmacy 







FACULTY OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



Chemistry 

 Computing and Informatics 

 Mathematics 

 Physics 

 Biology 

 Earth & Climate Science 

 Biochemistry 




FACULTY OF SOCIAL SCIENCES



 Economics, Population and Development Studies 

 Sociology, Social work and African Women Studies 

 Political Science and Public Administration 

Journalism and Mass Communication 

 Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

 Diplomacy and International Studies 
 

FACULTY OF VETERINARY MEDICINE



 Public Health,Pharmacology & Toxicology 

 Veterinary Anatomy & Physiology 

 Animal Production 

 Clinical Studies 

 Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology & Parasitology 
 

 









 Institutes and Centres 









RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



 Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies 
 Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology 
 The Institute for Climate Change and Adaptation
 Kenya Aids Vaccine Institute 
 Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies 







Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies 

Institute of Tropical & Infectious Diseases 

East African Kidney Institute 

Population Studies and Research Institute 

 Institute for Development Studies 

 Confucius institute 
 


RESEARCH CENTRES 



 African Women's Studies Centre 
 Center for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis (CEMA) 
 Centre For Biotechnology & Bioinformatics 






 Centre for Advanced Studies in Environmental Law & Policy

Centre for Translation and Interpretation 












 











 














University of Nairobi


 Committed to Scholarly Excellence 
 















About UsGovernanceExplore UoNFaculties & DepartmentsInstitutes and CentresOffices and DirectoratesAwards & AchievementsOur rankingsInaugural LecturesHonorary DegreesHigher Doctorate DegreesDistinguished Award WinnersUniversity of Nairobi ValedictoriansPrize Giving UoN Resolved Corporate ChartersUoN FactfileVision, Mission & Core ValuesAlumniStudentsVirtual 66th GraduationVirtual 65th Graduation Virtual 64th GraduationPhD GraduandsMasters GraduandsUoN 64th Graduation BookletVirtual 63rd Graduation 63rd Graduation BookletGraduands profilesUNSA Elections 2020eballotStaffTeaching Staff terms of serviceeballotCHUNA SACCOJobsPast JobsContactsNew studentsAdmission Letter and Joining InstructionsAdmission and Orientation of First YearsDo you need Help?Online registration for first year studentsOnline room applicationRegister for Sports & GamesStudents placed in UoN by KUCCPSPROGRAMMESResearch Week 2021ResearchResearch Innovation & Enterprise WebsiteOverviewAwards, Grants & RankingCollaborators & PartnersResearch and Innovation WeekMedia DeskNewsEventsGalleryCOVID-19 InfoLivestreamed VideosVarsity FocusDownloadsUoN@50Information for the media 















Home 



Faculty of Social Sciences

















Diploma Programmes
Postgraduate Diploma Programmes
Undergraduate Programmes
Masters Programmes
PhD Programmes




Diploma in Social Work and Social Development
Course code- C104
A candidate must satisfy the prescribed University of Nairobi requirements. In addition, the minimum qualifications for admission to an Ordinary Diploma programme are: KCSE certificate with a minimum aggregate of C (plain), or equivalent K.C.S.E. with a Mean grade C- or equivalent Plus a Certificate from a recognized post- secondary institution ‘O’ level certificate with a minimum grade of Division III plus evidence of relevant academic or professional training ‘A’ level qualification with a minimum of one (1) principal pass, or equivalent.
Click here for more information
Diploma in Criminology and Social Order
Course code - C120
A candidate must satisfy the prescribed University of Nairobi requirements. In addition, the minimum qualifications for admission to an Ordinary Diploma programme are: (i)    KCSE certificate with a minimum aggregate of C (plain) or equivalent (ii)   KCSE. with a Mean grade C- or equivalent Plus a Certificate from a recognized post- secondary institution (iii) ‘O’ level certificate with a minimum grade of Division III plus evidence of relevant academic or professional training (iv) ‘A’ level qualification with a minimum of one (1) principal pass, or equivalent
Click here for more information
Diploma in International Studies
Course code -  R140




Postgraduate Diploma in Strategic Studies
Course code - R47
The common regulations governing Postgraduate Diploma programmes in all Faculties, Institutes and Schools shall apply. The following shall be the minimum entry requirements for the Post-Graduate Diploma in Strategic Studies: A first degree from a recognized University or an equivalent qualification from a recognized University, and at least one year’s certified experience in relevant public service.
Click here for more information




Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology
Course code - N06
The study of Anthropology is now widely recognized in developmental circles as a crucial subject in the development of any nation.In the recent past, development institutions including the World Bank have realized the centrality of culture in development. They are now incorporating people’s way of life in everything they do for developmental sustainability.Many countries in Africa are currently going through socio cultural, economic, demographic, and political transitions. As a consequence of this the continent is facing a number of challenges including a sagging debt burden, raising levels of poverty, high morbidity rates, famine, population growth, climate change, environmental degradation, political conflict and change in family structures.  Anthropologists are therefore being called upon to use their unique training and skills to address these problems and challenges.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Gender and Development Studies
Course code - N12
The Bachelor of Arts in Gender and Development Studies is a degree programme designed and developed to articulate gender and development issues in a changing political, socio-economic and cultural environment.  At a more theoretical level, the programme seeks to provide a deeper understanding of an evolving gender system as a socially constructed system of hierarchical relationships which are manifested differently under diverse cultural contexts.  At the level of intervention, the focus is on how development partners can be sensitized and encouraged to increase their support for and commitment to the promotion of gender equity through a variety of gender responsive policies and programmes and also to develop strategies to accelerate and institutionalize the process of gender mainstreaming. 
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Economics
Course code – X74
The Bachelor of Economics programme prepares students for globally competitive careers. The graduates have well-developed intellectual skills in economics. This is evident as graduates hold top careers in Economics at the local and international levels. This is a 4 -year undergraduate programme and students are expected to cover 54 units of study, each with 45 contact hours.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Economics and Statistics
Course code – X75
The Bachelor of Economics and Statistics programme prepares students for globally competitive careers. The graduates have well-developed intellectual skills in economics. This is evident as graduates hold top careers in Economics at the local and international levels. This is a 4-year programme and students are expected to cover 54 units of study, each with 45 contact hours.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and Media Studies
Course code - K59
The programme subscribes to the notion that human capital development through training and research is vital to Kenya’s development agenda. This aligns with the philosophy of the University of Nairobi. It offers an excellent mix of communication, journalism and media knowledge, skills and competencies for a career in communication, journalism and media.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in Broadcast Production
Course code - K62
The Bachelor of Arts in Broadcast Production (Radio, Television and Film) degree programme has been developed in the context of the prospects and challenges facing the
industry in Kenya and Africa. There has been phenomenal growth within the communication and media sector in Kenya, and in Africa, brought on by the liberalisation
of the airwaves, following the democratisation wave in the early 1990s. The rapid developments in the information and communication technology have also resulted in
fundamental changes in the communication and media sector.
Click here for more information
Bachelor of Arts in International Studies
Course code -R67
This programme will: Equip students with both theoretical and practical knowledge of key issues in International Studies ii) Prepare students to be critical thinkers and have an understanding and appreciation of International Studies; Explore issues and trends in the development of international studies iv) Ground students in the multidisciplinary perspective in international studies related social science disciplines v) Enable students acquire skills necessary to critically evaluate and make positive contributions to international issues; Prepare students with the necessary academic competence to pursue higher studies in International Studies-related disciplines.
Click here for more information




Master of Arts in Anthropology
Course code-  N50
Anthropology is the study of humankind in a broad and comparative pespective. It provides a unified conception of human nature and human experience. One of the stengths of anthroplogy as a disclipline is its "holistic" or integrative approach; it links the life sciences  and the humanities and has strong links with disciplines ranging from biology and psychology to linguistics, political science, and the fine  arts. Anthropology is appropriate for people  with a wide interests including human cultures and civilizations both present and past, human variation, and human and animal behaviour.The Master of Arts in Anthropology is designed to cater for graduates of anthropology  and any other discipline interested  in the applications of anthropology  in their work It is aimed at intrested in furthering  theit academic and professional expertise in the field  of anthropology and other related disciplines.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Gender and Development Studies
Course code - N69
The master of Arts in Gender and Development is for students who are interested in gaining further skills and knowledge  in gender and development issues. The program will enable students to mainstream gender into development planning, programming and policy implementation to achieve gender equality in resource allocation between women and men in society. It deals with critical gender analysis and practical skills as constructive approaches to reforming development practice towards more equitable and sustainable outcomes.
The rationale of the program is to relate different analytical and policy concerns raised in gender and development to specific concerns in sectoral plans and policies at all levels and stages of development interventions.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Economics
Course code – X50 
The programme shall consist of 2 years of full time study by coursework, examination and a Project Paper.  The first year of study shall be devoted to coursework only, while the second year will be devoted to further coursework (first semester), research, writing and examination of the Project Paper. In each of the two semesters of the first year, candidates shall be required to take FOUR (4) compulsory courses. During the second year of study, candidates shall be required to take (4) electives during the first semester. The Second semester of the second Year will be completely devoted to research and production of a project paper.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Economic Policy Management
Course code – X51 
The program aims at meeting the demand for senior economic policy analysts and managers. Students will be equipped with: 1) a firm understanding of economic principles; and 2) ability to analyze a wide range of economic problems and formulate and implement meaningful economic policies. Each student will, at the end of training be proficient in economic theory, quantitative methods and applications (including computer applications, and in economic policy analysis and management).
Click here for more information
Master of Science in Health Economics and Policy
Course code – X53 
This syllabus and accompanying regulations will prepare masters level graduates of economics to address complex multilateral trade needs of our time by equipping them with such economics and law as is useful in guiding the multilateral trade agreements of an evolving global trading system.
The program shall consist of 2 years of full time study by coursework, examination and a research project. The first year of study shall be devoted to coursework only, while the second year will be devoted to further coursework (first semester), and preparation of the research project. In each of the two semesters of the first year, the candidates shall be required to take FOUR units (4 core courses per semester). In the first semester of the second year, candidates shall be required to take 4 elective courses. The second semester of the second year will be completely devoted to research and preparation of a research project. The maximum duration for completion of the programme is 4 years.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts Population
Course code - Q50
The Master of Arts Programme in Population Studies is intended to prepare demographers, and social scientists for careers in Government Services, academic and private sector. Students will be exposed to a broad inter-disciplinary perspective of the complexity of causes of population change at the individual, family, community, national and international level. Particular attention will be given to mastering of skills necessary for conducting high quality population research aimed at furthering the national development goals.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Monitoring and Evaluation
Course code - Q51
The Master of Arts (M&E) Programme provides learners with knowledge to conceptualize  programmes within the logic framework, develop M&E indicators, monitoring systems, develop evaluation plans for programmes, conduct research and evaluations and  advocate for the utilization of M&E results for evidence based decision making
Click here for more information
Master Development Studies
Course code - T51
The courses involve formal study and practical experience in the social sciences. A team of scholars with varied academic background and experience including sociologists, political scientists, anthropologists, and economists deliver the curriculum. The team facilitates the delivery of the MDEV programme through an interdisciplinary approach and an emphasis on theoretical rigour. This approach aims at improving understanding of current development problems and how development research can improve the real lives of people.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Communication Studies
Course code - K50
The objectives of the programme are: 1. Provide students with advanced knowledge of the different tools and techniques used by various media to communicate public information and entertainment to different audiences. 2. Provide students with an in-depth understanding of the major philosophies and methods underlying the study and practice of communications and the legal and ethical issues and challenges associated with the discipline. 3. Equip students with specialized knowledge of advanced tools to research, synthesize and interpret knowledge and experience to solve social communications problems or achieve societal communication objectives.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Sociology (Rural Sociology and Community Development)
Course code - C510
Master of Arts in Medical Sociology
Course code- C511
Master of Arts in Sociology (Disaster Management)
Course code- C512 
Master of Arts in Sociology (Criminology and Social Order)
Course code - C514
Master of Arts in Political Science and Public Administration
Course code - C501
The M.A. degree programme shall consist of either of the two options and the candidate shall select one of the options.
Option One

The M.A. programme shall consist of coursework, examination and a thesis, and shall run for a minimum of four (4) semesters and a maximum of twelve (12) semesters of fifteen (15) weeks each.
The candidate shall be required to successfully take at least eight (8) taught course units prior to embarking on thesis work.
The minimum course load in each semester prior to the final one shall be two (2) course units; while the maximum load shall be four 94) course units per semester.
 All courses shall be of 45 hours duration.

Option Two

The M.A. degree programme shall consist of coursework, examination and a project paper, and shall run for a minimum of four (4) semesters and a maximum of twelve (12) semesters of fifteen (15) weeks each.
The candidate shall be required to successfully take twelve (12) approved course units prior to embarking on the M.A. Project paper.
The M.A. Project paper shall be taken during the final semester of the programme, and shall be equivalent of four (4) course units.
All courses shall each be of 45 hours duration.
Topics for the M.A. Project paper shall be identified by candidates in consultation with their supervisors, subject to the formal approval of the Department

Click here for more information
Master of Public Administration
Course code - C51
The Master of Public Administration (MPA) programme is designed to benefit and tap the experiences of practitioners currently working in the Kenyan public service and from other organisations. The programme also targets public servants and other interested individuals from other countries in the region and beyond. As a needs-based programme, it enables students to acquire requisite knowledge and skills to improve their performance in public service and develop insights and skills needed to plan, formulate, execute policy, as well as to monitor and evaluate. The programme has been developed in consultation with the key stakeholders in Kenya’s public service, namely the Ministry of State for Public Service and the Kenya School of Government (KSG). The programme shall be jointly coordinated by the Department of Political Science and Public Administration at the University of Nairobi and the KIA. KIA has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the University to that effect. For purposes of quality assurance, the programme shall be run in conformity with regulations governing University of Nairobi academic programmes.
Click here for more information
Masters of Research and Public Policy
Course code - C52
Master of Research and Public Policy (MRPP) is a collaborative graduate programme involving 16 universities from 9 countries in Africa under the auspices of Partnership for African Social and Governance Research (PASGR). The programme has a dual focus on social science research and public policy as distinct from public administration or public management. It targets those who wish to be researchers and future academics as well as policy practitioners as it applies public policy as an area of applied research as well as professional practice.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in International Relations
Course code - C528
The M.A. in International Relations Programme seeks to: Expose students to the major issues in International Relations; Increase students’ international consciousness, by making them appreciates the way the international system operates; Provide those already in policy-making and policy-implementation positions in state and non-state agencies with the skills and tools necessary to make sound decisions on issues affecting their countries’ relations with other units in the international system; Prepare students for careers in international organizations, diplomatic offices and national offices that handle international affairs; Equip students with theoretical and applied knowledge of key issues and approaches in international relations as a specialized field of study; Prepare students for further academic and career pursuits in the study and conduct of international relations.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Women, Leadership and Governance in Africa
Course code - M10
The MA programme shall cover a minimum of four (4) and a maximum of eight (8) semesters for full time students and a maximum of ten (10) semesters for part time students. Each semester shall consist of fifteen (15) weeks. Each course unit shall be covered by 45 contact hours. Each candidate will be allowed to take a minimum of two (2) units and a maximum of six (6) units in one semester. Prior to embarking on the research project, the candidate shall be required to successfully take and pass 12 approved course units, of which 10 are core units and 2 electives. The research project shall be undertaken in the third or fourth semester and shall be equivalent to four (4) taught course units. A student shall required to submit a proposal during the first semester of the second academic year of study.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts in Strategic Studies and Security Studies
Course code - C542
This course is designed as an academic course with emphasis on subject areas of practical use and importance in the conduct of strategic and security affairs. The program is a reaction to the rapidly changing security and intelligence environment that requires a more innovative approach to addressing the emerging security threats. The program targets participants from various backgrounds who aspire to enhance their knowledge in the area of security and intelligence and those who are already in the security sector and hope to enhance their career objectives. The course appreciates the new dimensions to security and intelligence and the obligations that governments’ owes their citizens in terms of enhanced freedoms, good governance and respect for human rights. Overall the course will sharpen the skills of the participants especially in the formulation and implementation of security and intelligence policy. Security and intelligence issues have become so complex that they require sophisticated and specialized knowledge which can be impacted by graduate training. This course is intended to bridge this gap.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Public Policy
Course code - C822
Master of Arts International Studies
Course code - R50
The Master of Arts in International Relations will: Expose students to the overall framework of international relations; Acquaint students with the key issues and approaches in international relations; Acquaint students with new developments in international relations.
Click here for more information
Master of Arts Diplomacy
Course code - R51




Doctor of Philosophy in Anthropology
Course code - N79
The following shall be eligible for registration for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the Institute of Anthropology, gender and and African studies; A holder of a master of Anthropology degree of the University of nairobi, and a holder of a master of Anthropology degree of a reconized University whose degree has been accepted by senate to be equivalent of a master of Arts Degree of the Uiversity of Nairobi. Holders of a masters degree in a discipline other than Anthropology shall be eligible for registration if they satisfy senate that they possess sufficient  foundation in Anthropology to be able to pursue and research in and write a thesis on anthropolofy subjec
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in African Women Studies
Course code - M20
Doctor of Philosophy in Economics
Course code - X80
The programme will be covered in eight semesters over a period of four academic years and will involve full time study by coursework, examination and thesis.  The first three semesters will be totally devoted to course work.  The fourth semester will be devoted to preparations for the comprehensive examinations and thesis proposal development.  The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth semesters will be devoted to research, seminars, writing and defense of the thesis.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Population Studies
Course code - Q80
The programme will be covered in eight semesters over a period of four academic years and will involve full time study by coursework, examination and thesis.  The first three semesters will be totally devoted to course work.  The fourth semester will be devoted to preparations for the comprehensive examinations and thesis proposal development.  The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth semesters will be devoted to research, seminars, writing and defense of the thesis.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Development Studies
Course code - T80
The philosophy of the programme is to equip candidates with the skills and knowledge required for a career in academia or consultancy in the field of development. Its objective is to empower candidates with the analytical and conceptual skills needed to understand the opportunities and challenges of development.
A candidate registered for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Development Studies shall carry out a programme of original research over a minimum period of 18 months after the date of registration or after completion of any required coursework and/or examination. No candidate for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Development Studies shall be registered as a full-time student for more than four years or as a part-time student for more than five years, except by permission of the Senate. Subject to the approval of the Senate, IDS may require candidates to attend such a course or courses as may be considered appropriate to remedy deficiencies in the candidate. 
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Communication and Information Studies
Course code - K90
This programme is intended to provide students who wish to undertake doctoral studies in communications with an opportunity to delve into the theoretical and practical depths of communication and information studies. The programme is informed by the dynamic changes and complexities in the communications landscape, coupled with market trends and industry needs. It is also structured to instil requisite communication skills necessary for the realisation of Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Sociology
Course code - C83
The PhD program in Sociology at UoN offers high quality training in sociological knowledge and research methods, and prepares students to embark on successful professional careers in sociology.  The program is offered by top notch faculty who place high emphasis on one on one interactions with students
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy in Gender and Development Studies 
Course code- N81
Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science and Public Administration
Course code - C816
The aim of PhD program for Political Science and Public Administration is to develop student’s ability to conduct high quality research and advance their analytical thinking capacities in various fields of political science and public administration.
Click here for more information
Doctor of Philosophy International Studies
Course code - R82
The primary objective of the programme is to provide students with extensive academic skills and knowledge in their areas of specialization to enable them pursue careers in teaching and research. The skills and knowledge acquired should enable the students to participate in the development of ideas and solutions to problems that may arise in their fields of specialization with passage of time. The common regulations for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the University shall apply to all requirements not specifically provided for herein.
Click here for more information





 






















Research Resources


University Library
Research, Innovation and Enterprise 
UoN Digital Repository
Search for UON Publications
Intellectual Property
UON Academic Journals
Kenyatta National Hospital and University Of Nairobi Ethics and Research Review Committee
UoN Suppliers Portal











Student Resources


Faculty ICT Support Emails
Eballot
Online Application for self sponsored Applicants
Student Portal
Student Email
SOMAS
E-Learning Portal
E-Class
Library Services Portal
UoN Digital Repository
Transcript/Certificate Application
HELB
Employer's Graduates verification

 








Staff Resources


Staff Email
UoN WIFI Page
UoN Intranet
Search Staff
Staff SMIS Login
Online Leave Application
Eballot
Chuna Sacco

 


Other Links


Pension Scheme 2007
CIPR
Alumni
Tenders / Quotations
SOMA na Telkom - FAQs
Support Emails










Contact Us

Address: P.O. Box 30197-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Phone: (+254) 020-4910000
Email: pr@uonbi.ac.ke





 














 

© University of Nairobi 2022. All Rights Reserved.




Home
Contact



 






 






