https://www.rongovarsity.ac.ke/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/RUSA-Elections-vacancies-positions-1.pdf RONGO UNIVERSITY OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF STUDENTS From: Chairman, Students Electoral Commission Ref: RU/DOS/29/Vol.1 To: All Students Date: 3/3/2020 Subject: Submissions of applications for posts in the Students Association 2020/21 academic Year This is to invite applications to fill leadership posts in the Students Association for the 2020/21 Academic year. The posts are Executive Council members, Electoral College members and Speaker of Congress. A. Electoral College/Member of Congress 24 posts 1. School of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environmental Studies - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 2. School of Arts and Social Sciences - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 3. School of Business and Human Resource Development - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 4. School of Education - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 5. School of Information, Communication and Media Studies - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 6. School of Science, Technology and Engineering - (3 posts) i. School Academic Representative ii. School Ladies Representative iii. School Representative 7. School of Graduate Studies (1 post) i. School Representative / Post graduate Representative 8. Main Campus - (1 post) i. Campus Representative 9. Off Campus (Rongo Town Annex) (1 post) i. Campus Representative 10. Religious representatives -- (3 posts) i. Three persons nominated by the registered religious groups in the University B. Speaker of Congress (1 post) i. One person to be elected by Congress. Duly filled in application forms to be surrendered to the Office of Dean of Students in Main Campus by 10th March 2020. The forms may be obtained from the University website www.rongovarsity.ac.ke Dr. Jonathan Mulwa Chairman, Students Electoral Commission Cc: Vice Chancellor Deputy Vice Chancellor(Academic and Students Affairs) Deputy Vice Chancellor(Administration, Finance and Planning) Deans of Schools and Directors Registrar(Academic Affairs) Coordinator, Rongo Town Annex Chief Security Officer Chairman, Students Association Students notice boards 