https://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/requestinfo.php



 



Request Info - 
 	Graduate School 
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Graduate School
 	








Future Students
Current Students
Degrees
News & Events
Resources
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Apply Now!
Degree Programs
Calendar
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitter




Home

 	Graduate School 
 	Request Info


UofM Grad School: Request Info

 
If you see this don't fill out this input box.First Name*
Last Name*
Email Address*
Zip Code
Is there a particular degree program you're interested in?
Accounting
Anthropology
Applied Biomechanics
Applied Physiology & Nutrition
Architecture
Art
Art Education
Art History
Audiology
Aviation Human Factors
Biology
Biomedical Engineering
Business Administration
Ceramics
Chemistry
City & Regional Planning
Civil Engineering
Clinical Nutrition
Communication
Communication Sciences & Disorders
Computer Science
Counseling Education and Supervision
Counseling Psychology
Creative Writing
Criminal Justice
Data Science
Earth Science
Economics
Education
Educational Psychology & Research
Electrical & Computer Engineering
Engineering
Engineering Technology
English
Environmental Nutrition
Epidemiology and Biostatistics
Exercise Nutrition
Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences
Finance
Graphic Design
HR Leadership
Health Administration
Health Analytics
Health Promotion
Higher & Adult Education
History
Information Systems
Instruction & Curriculum Leadership
Journalism & Strategic Media
Leadership & Policy Studies
Liberal Studies
MBA (Professional, Online, Executive)
Management
Marketing
Mathematical Sciences
Mechanical Engineering
Music
Nursing
Nutrition Science
Painting
Philosophy
Photography
Physical Education Teacher Education
Physics
Political Science
Population Health
Printmaking
Professional Studies
Psychology
Public Administration
Public Health
Romance Languages
School Psychology
Sculpture
Social & Behavioral Science
Social Work
Sociology
Speech-Language Pathology
Sport & Hospitality Management
Strategic Leadership
Studio Arts
Teacher Education
Theatre
Training and Development
Urban AffairsHold "command" to select more than one area
Tell Me More! 
 
 
 

COVID-19 Response: Limited-Time Offers
The UofM Graduate School is committed to assisting you in your academic pursuits and
 offering temporary allowances to further your education in response to COVID-19. Applying
 to graduate school is an important decision, especially during these challenging times,
 and our faculty and staff at the Graduate School are here to help you every step of
 the way. Take advantage of these limited-time opportunities and apply to the UofM
 Graduate School today.We are waiving standardized test requirements (GRE/GMAT) for many of our graduate programs for Spring 2022. (See the list of participating programs below.)
We are accepting Duolingo, a fully-online English proficiency test, as an alternative to the currently accepted
 TOEFL/IELTS/PTE.*Applies to international applicants
Apply to Graduate School >

Standardized Test Waiver Information
Select a college below to see a comprehensive list of their departments/programs and
 whether or not they are offering GRE/GMAT waivers for Spring 2022. Note, each program
 has different admission requirements and specifications regarding the standardized
 test waivers. Program requirements are subject to change. Please continue to check
 back for the most up-to-date information. For more information, email Anna.Grisham@memphis.edu .
 



College of Arts & Sciences 




Anthropology - Test score requirements will be waived for Spring 2022 applications. In lieu of
 test scores, the department will conduct a holistic review of other application materials.
 
Biological Sciences - The department of Biological Sciences will permanently waive the GRE requirement
 for admission into its graduate programs.
 
Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI) - CERI will permanently waive the GRE requirement for admission into its graduate
 programs.
 
Chemistry - The Chemistry Department will waive the GRE for all students applying for Spring
 2022.
 
City and Regional Planning - The Department of City and Regional Planning is waiving the GRE requirement for
 all Spring 2022 applicants.
 
Computer Science - GRE scores are optional for Spring 2022.
 
Criminology and Criminal Justice - Applicants for the Spring 2022 semester will have the GRE requirement waived due
 to COVID-19 concerns. The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice is currently
 assessing the future of the GRE requirement departmentally.
 
Data Science - The Department of Data Science will waive GRE requirements for the Spring 2022
 admission cycle. 
 
Earth Sciences - Earth Sciences will be waiving the GRE requirement for the Spring 2022 admission
 cycle.  
 
English - Department of English has permanently waived GRE requirements. This includes the
 Creative Writing program.  
 
History - Department of History has permanently waived GRE requirements.
 
Mathematical Sciences - Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Mathematical Sciences may be able
 to waive some documentation normally required to complete a graduate application.
 Prospective students should contact Fernanda Botelho mbotelho@memphis.edu (Mathematics) or Lih-Yuan Deng lihdeng@memphis.edu (Statistics) with information on their specific situation. 
 
Philosophy - The Department of Philosophy has eliminated the GRE as a required test for admission
 to the MA and PhD programs. 
 
Physics and Material Science - The Department of Physics will waive GRE requirements for applicants applying for
 the Spring 2022 semester.
 
Political Science - Political Science will temporarily waive the standardized test requirement (formerly
 GRE or LSAT) for their MA program for Spring 2022 applicants.
 
Public and Nonprofit Administration - Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration is waiving the GRE permanently
 for all future admission cycles and is placing a high emphasis on the applicant’s
 personal statement. However, the GRE may be submitted if the applicant opts to add
 it as a supplemental document for consideration.
 
Psychology - GRE scores will not be required for applicants to any of the five psychology graduate
 programs (Ph.D. Clinical, Experimental, or School; Master in General Psychology; Master
 of Arts/Educational Specialist School Psychology).
 
Social Work - The School of Social Work usually requires the GRE or the Praxis Core Writing test
 in Master of Social Work admissions. They are waiving these scores for Fall 2021 and
 Spring 2022 semesters, but they are requiring a writing sample in lieu of either of
 these tests. Applicants may submit a writing sample in the 'applicant uploaded documents'
 section in the application. Preferably, this would be a research paper or something
 similar from the applicant’s undergraduate work that showcases his/her best writing
 abilities. 
 
 
GRE scores will be required for Summer 2022 and all future semesters.
The Doctoral Social Work program will still require GRE scores.


Sociology - The Department of Sociology will waive test score requirements for MA applicants
 for the Spring 2022 admission cycle.
 
SUAPP: Urban Affairs PhD Program  - The Urban Affairs PhD program will waive the GRE requirement for Fall 2021 and
 Spring 2022 applicants. However, these scores may be submitted to support the application.
 
World Languages and Literatures - The Department of World Languages and Literatures does not require GRE scores for
 their MA in Romance languages with a concentration in French and Spanish degree.
 






Fogelman College of Business & Economics 




The following business programs will accept applicants who qualify for Spring 2022
 who meet one of five criteria, which can be found here. If you have questions about whether you qualify, please contact the program coordinator.

Online MBA
Professional MBA
MS in Information Systems (MSIS)


The following programs will require GMAT/GRE scores for Spring 2022 admissions.
 
 
MS in Accounting
MA in Economics
MSBA in Finance
All Doctoral programs








College of Communication and Fine Arts (CCFA) 



Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music
 
 
They have waived the requirement for the GRE in the Ph.D. musicology program. None
 of their other programs require the GRE.
 


Department of Architecture
 
 
The Department of Architecture is waiving the GRE requirement for Master of Architecture
 applicants applying for Spring 2022.
 


Department of Art
 
 
GRE will be required for all future applicants for the MA in Art History.


Department of Communication and Film
 
 
The Department of Communication and Film will permanently waive GRE requirements.


Department of Journalism & Strategic Media
 
 
The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media will waive GRE requirements for all
 future admission cycles.
 







School of Communication Sciences and Disorders





The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders will require GRE scores for Spring 2022 admission.
 







College of Education 




The following Masters of Science (MS) programs offered by the College of Education’s
 Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department will waive GRE scores until further
 notice:
 
 
Applied Behavior Analysis
Early Childhood
Elementary Education
Instruction and Curriculum
Instructional Design & Technology
Literacy Education
Secondary Program
Special Education




The Doctoral (EdD) Programs offered College of Education’s Instruction and Curriculum
 Leadership Department will waive GRE scores until further notice:
 
 
Applied Behavior Analysis
Early Childhood Education
Instruction and Curriculum
Literacy Education
Special Education 
 
 
The Instructional Design & Technology (IDT) masters and doctoral programs will require GRE scores for admission. 




The Leadership Department (which includes EdD Higher & Adult Education, EdD Leadership
 & Policy Studies and MS Educational Leadership and Policy Studies) has decided to
 waive the GRE permanently.
 
The Master of Art in Teaching (MAT) Programs do not require the GRE for admission.
The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research (CEPR) is comprised
 of the following programs:

Counseling (Masters and PhD)
Counseling Psychology (PhD)
Educational Psychology and Research (Masters and PhD)
 
 
All masters and doctoral programs in the CEPR Department require the GRE except for
 the MS in EDPR program which is continuing to waive their GRE requirement for Spring
 2022.
 










Herff College of Engineering




For MS applicants not seeking a graduate assistantship, the Herff College will waive
 the GRE requirements for Spring 2022 applicants to the following programs:
 
 
MS Civil Engineering
MS Electrical and Computer Engineering
MS Engineering Management
MS Engineering Technology
MS Mechanical Engineering


Students may apply to the Masters in Biomedical Engineering without GRE scores. Admissions
 will be made on a case-by-case basis.
 
Applicants to the PhD program and all other MS applicants must provide GRE scores.






College of Health Sciences




The College of Health Sciences will waive the GRE requirement (it is optional) for
 admission to their respective graduate programs except for the Clinical Nutrition
 concentration. 
 
The following Nutrition concentrations will waive the GRE requirement: 
 
 
Environmental Nutrition
Nutrition Science


The following Health Studies concentrations will waive the GRE requirement: 
 
 
Exercise Nutrition
 Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences
Health Promotion
Physical Education Teacher Education


The following Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics Ph.D. concentrations will waive
 the GRE requirement:
 
 
Applied Physiology & Nutrition
Applied Biomechanics








Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management




The Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management does not require a
 GRE for their graduate programs. They consider the holistic application of the student
 including GPA, references, resume/experience, and a statement of interest. They do
 review GRE scores if a student has them, but they do not require the students to have
 taken the GRE to be accepted in their programs.
 






Loewenberg College of Nursing




Nursing does not require GRE scores for their programs. They only have a GRE requirement
 for the Nursing Ph.D. program if GPA scores are not available. These situations are
 reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
 






Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law





The law school is still requiring the LSAT.







College of Professional and Liberal Studies 




The College of Professional & Liberal Studies does not require GRE scores.






School of Public Health





We are pleased to confirm that all the graduate programs in the School of Public Health
 will extend their waiver of the GRE requirement for applicants applying for the Spring
 2022 semester.
 

The graduate programs include:
 
 
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
Master of Science in Biostatistics (MS Biostatistics)
PhD in Epidemiology and Biostatistics
PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences


(Note that the PhD in Health Systems and Policy is not accepting applications.)






 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 12/2/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































