https://www.memphis.edu/coronavirusupdates/heerf/caresact.php



 



CARES Act Reporting - 
 	Coronavirus Updates
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Coronavirus Updates
 	







Guidelines
Info For...
Vaccine
Testing
Case Report
Mask Data
Communications
FAQs
Resources
HEERF Reporting









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Disclosures 





 Student Aid Portion

CARES Act (HEERF I)

CRRSA Act (HEERF II)

ARP Act (HEERF III)


Institutional Aid Portion




Take Action



Review Guidelines
Daily Self-Checker
Testing Center
View Cases on Campus Report
CARES Act








Home

 	Coronavirus Updates
 	

 	HEERF
 	CARES Act Reporting

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act)
 
CARES ACT Reporting Requirements 
On April 10, 2020, the University of Memphis (UofM) signed and returned to the US
 Department of Education (U.S. DOE) the Certification and Agreement and the assurance
 that the institution intends to use, no less than 50 percent of the funds received
 under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants
 to students. The U.S. DOE provided UofM with an electronically signed Grant Award
 Notification (GAN) on April 28, 2020.
 
Pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement for Emergency Financial
 Aid Grants to Students, the UofM will receive $15,603,750, one-half of which ($7,801,875)
 will be provided directly to students in the form of emergency grants.
 
As of September 30, 2021, the total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed
 to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act is $7,787,700. 
 
UofM estimated a total of 12,283 as eligible to participate in programs under Section
 484 in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and thus eligible to receive Emergency
 Financial Aid Grants to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act.
 
As of September 30, 2021, 12,283 students have received an Emergency Financial Aid
 Grant to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act.
 
The method used by UofM to determine which students receive Emergency Financial Aid
 Grants and how much they would receive under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act
 is as follows:
 

Student must be currently enrolled for the spring 2020 semester as a degree seeking
 undergraduate, graduate or Law
 
Student must have completed a 2019-2020 FAFSA and meet all eligibility requirements
 for Title IV Financial Aid under Section 484 of the Higher Education Act.
 
Student must have been financially impacted due to disruption of academic operations
 caused by COVID-19.
 
Any student who was enrolled in an exclusively online program prior to the transition
 to remote instruction is not eligible to receive funds at this time.




EFC Cohort
CARES Act Award




$0
$888


$1-$5,766
$600


Non Pell Eligible

$500




All students at the UofM, were advised via email sent on May 4, 2020, about the distribution of these CARES Act funds. 
 

Frequently Asked Questions
The federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act provided money to colleges and universities for emergency student grants. The purpose
 of the money was to award emergency financial aid grants to students for specific
 expenses that are a direct result of the disruption of campus operations due to the
 coronavirus. The University of Memphis distributed CARES Act Emergency funding in a way that prioritized
 students with the greatest demonstrated need as evidenced by their completed FAFSA
 on file and ensures that funds are distributed as widely as possible.
 



What expenses can be considered for CARES Act Emergency funding? 



The following is a list of expenses that can be considered for CARES Act Emergency
 grant assistance if they were incurred in "direct relation to the disruption of campus
 operations due to the coronavirus."
 


Food
Housing
Course materials
Health care
Childcare
Technology-related expenses (such as having to buy a computer when courses were moved
 online)
 
Transportation (such as having to fly home because classes were canceled or having
 to return from study abroad when the program was canceled)
 


The CARES Act stipulates that the emergency funds cannot be used to replace a loss
 of income or to pay for student expenses that are not directly related to the disruption
 of campus operations due to the coronavirus pandemic.
 





Who is eligible for CARES Act Emergency funding? 



The US Department of Education states only undergraduate and graduate students who
 are Title IV eligible can be awarded CARES Act Emergency funds. This means students
 must have a FAFSA on file with the University of Memphis or be eligible to file one.
 Additional recent federal guidance further clarified who may receive CARES Act Emergency
 funds. Unfortunately, the US Department of Education does not allow CARES Act Emergency funds
 to be used for international, DACA or undocumented students or for any student who
 was exclusively taking online courses prior to March 13, 2020.
 





Do I have to file a FAFSA to receive CARES Act Emergency funds? 



No. An undergraduate student or graduate student only needs to be eligible to file
 a FAFSA or already have a FAFSA on file with the University of Memphis.
 





How is the University of Memphis distributing the funds?



The University of Memphis has created separate funding pools for graduate students
 and undergraduate students to ensure we prioritize students with greatest need from
 both categories, which is in keeping with US Department of Education requirements.
 Funds have been allocated to each pool proportionately based on the eligible headcount
 for undergraduates and for graduates. Learn more here >





I am an undergraduate student with need who is eligible for CARES Emergency Act funding.
 What do I do? 



CARES Act Emergency funding for eligible undergraduate students will be distributed
 in two ways:
 

Direct awards will be given to students receiving Pell Grants who the federal government
 defines as having exceptional need. The University will communicate directly to Pell
 recipients about their award through their UofM email account. Pell Grant recipients
 do not need to submit an application to receive their CARES Act Emergency funds.
 
Remaining CARES Act Emergency funds will be set aside for eligible undergraduate students
 to access through the University’s existing emergency funding program. Students in
 this group should have filed a FAFSA or be eligible to file a FAFSA.
 






How do students receive the money?



All emergency grants were processed through University and Student Business Services
 (USBS) via your Tiger Express student account. Emergency grants were directly deposited
 into bank accounts for students who are enrolled in direct deposit. Students without direct deposit received a paper refund check in the mail.
 





What if I owe the University of Memphis for tuition or other expenses?



The full amount of the emergency grants will be given directly to the student, and
 the University of Memphis will not hold the funds to pay any outstanding balance owed.
 





Will CARES Act Emergency funds impact current or future financial aid?



No. This funding is not financial aid, it is emergency relief funding from Congress.





For any additional questions on the processing of your eligible CARES ACT Emergency
 funds, please contact the University and Student Business Services at usbs@memphis.edu with any questions.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/8/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































