https://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/undergraduate/index.php



 



Undergraduate Resources - 
 	Department of Anthropology
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Anthropology
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Our Work
Resources
News & Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate Resources





Degree Requirements and Course Descriptions

Declare Anthropology Major

Honors in Anthropology

Accelerated BA/MA Program

University Calendars

UofM Catalog

Undergraduate Alumni




Take Action



Undergraduates
Join the Graduate Program
Support the Department
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	Department of Anthropology
 	

 	Undergraduate Majors
 	

Undergraduate Information
What does training in Anthropology do for you?
Anthropology majors develop cross-cultural communication, human relations, critical
 thinking, writing, analysis, evaluation, problem-solving, planning, and community
 outreach skills.  It is an ideal field to prepare for jobs that require people skills,
 and understanding of multicultural and institutional dynamics.  The minor in Anthropology
 is also valuable for those planning to work with diverse national and international
 populations.
 
Whether you are seeking a degree in anthropology or pursuing an interest in anthropology
 through electives, the undergraduate anthropology program will give you the opportunity
 to study the cultures and behaviors of people from around the world throughout time.
 A degree in anthropology presents diverse opportunities and serves as a good foundation
 in fields ranging from pre-med to pre-law. Our dynamic and award-winning faculty create
 opportunities for enriched learning geared towards a broad array of interests. A recent survey of graduating seniors
 in the anthropology program found that 100% were 'very satisfied' with the accessibility
 of faculty and  94% were 'very satisfied' with the quality of teaching in the department.
 89% of graduating seniors were very satisfied with the faculty's concern for their
 progress. Click here to find out what some of our undergrad alums are doing now. 
 
In this section:

Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Honors in Anthropology
Accelerated B.A / M.A. in Anthropology
Class Scheduling
Archaeology
Internships


Undergraduate Advising Coordinator
Kenny LattaPhone: (901) 678-2080
 
Set up an advising appointment.

Bachelor of Arts with Major in Anthropology
Our department offers an undergraduate major in Anthropology. Those seeking a major
 in anthropology, in addition to completing University requirements for a BA degree,
 are required to take 30 hours of anthropology courses, including the following core
 courses:
 


ANTH 1100 Human Origins and Variation


ANTH 1200 Cultural Anthropology


ANTH 3200 Peoples and Cultures of the World


ANTH 4065 Contemporary Anthropological Theory


Students can select from a variety of undergraduate courses offered by the department
 every semester to complete the 18 additional semester hours, at least 6 of these hours must
 be at the 4000 level. 
 

Bachelor of Arts with Minor in Anthropology
Students who choose to minor in anthropology must complete 4 core anthropology courses
 (ANTH 1100, 1200, 3200, and 4065; 12 credit hours) and at least 6 credit hours of
 anthropology electives.
 
Some of our anthropology electives consist of: American Communities, Anthropology
 and Environment, Anthropology and Education, Anthropology and Human Rights, Anthropology
 of Religion, Culture and Mental Health, Human Adaptations, Medical Anthropology, Museum
 Collections, Neighborhood Development, Nutritional Anthropology, Peoples of Africa,
 and more!
 

Honors Program
The Honors Program in Anthropology is open to Anthropology majors only and requires:

(a) an inclusive grade point average of at least 3.00,
(b) a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in the major,
(c) the completion of ANTH 4010: Ethnographic Methods;
(d) four honors courses in anthropology;
(e) the completion of independent research (traditional or engaged scholarship) culminating
 in an original research thesis or creative work.
 

Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will
 be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred, "With
 Honors in Anthropology." Moreover, the student's diploma and the record at the University
 of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. 
 
For full details and application information, see the Honors in Anthropology web page.
 

Accelerated B.A / M.A. in Anthropology
This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master
 of Arts in Anthropology during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin
 planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career,
 in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Anthropology. For more information,
 see the Accelerated B.A / M.A. web page.

 
Class Scheduling
Trying to plan ahead? This class schedule shows our rotation plan for courses in upcoming semesters of odd (e.g. 2021) and
 even (e.g. 2022) years. Use this to think about what you will be taking as you move
 toward graduation. We frequently offer additional classes that do not appear on this
 template--so be sure to check the current class listings and bulletin boards around
 the department.
 

Archaeology
Archaeology is one of anthropology's major subfields. Students at U of M are encouraged
 to explore archaeology through individual coursework, summer field work, and internships.
 Many of these experiences are offered through the Earth Sciences Department. To facilitate
 undergraduate training in archaeology, the Anthropology and Earth Sciences Departments
 coordinate to provide a double major covering the physical, methodological, and cultural aspects of the field.
 
Visit the Archaeology roadmap page for more information on an ANTH/ESCI double major. 
 

Undergraduate Internship Opportunities
Our department has partnered with many organizations, institutions, and non-profits
 all over Memphis to host our undergraduates and graduate students in formal internship
 positions.  Check out the links below to view our Internship Pamphlet and List of
 Internship Opportunities. 
 
Internship Pamphlet
List of Internship Opportunities
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 1/31/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































