https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/graduate/clinicalnutrition.php



 



Clinical Nutrition - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





Graduate Admissions

MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science

MS Health Promotion

MS Exercise Nutrition

MS Physical Education Teacher Education

MS Environmental Nutrition

MS Nutrition Science

 MS Clinical Nutrition

About

Admissions

MS & DI Combined Program

Resources

Students

Preceptors


 PhD Applied Physiology & NeuromechanicsAboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty





Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Graduate
 	Clinical Nutrition

MS/DI Clinical Nutrition
 
 
The University of Memphis MS Nutrition/Dietetic Internship and Residency Program is
 an intensive curriculum lasting only 16 months. You are expected to complete all requirements
 in the 16-month period. The program begins in mid-Aug. of the first year, and continues
 with classes and/or supervised practice through the end of the fall semester of the
 second year. The program is a minimum of 42 credit hours. The didactic curriculum
 focuses on preparing you for clinical rotations. You will take 9-12 hours of coursework
 each of the first two semesters (fall and spring), and may have an optional 20-hour-per-week
 graduate assistantship (GA), in a clinical research, healthcare or management site.
 
The supervised practice (internship/rotations) aspect of the program focuses primarily
 on adult clinical nutrition with pediatric rotations, community rotations and management
 rotations occurring in a variety of healthcare sites throughout the Memphis area.
 Thesis/project work begins during the first fall semester and is optional for completion
 of the program. However, some sites will require that you conduct research as a component
 of your involvement at that site. If not conducting a thesis/project, you will be
 expected to complete three credit hours of clinical nutrition research coursework.
 Rotations start in late May/early June after completing the initial fall and spring
 semesters and take place over the summer and second fall semester. During this time,
 you are in rotations 40 hours per week and meet for classes approximately four hours
 per week. After completion of the 28 weeks of rotations, you will have accumulated
 approximately 1200 hours of supervised practice. You will have been prepared at entry
 level and will receive a Verification Statement. You are then eligible to sit for
 the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian/nutritionist (RDN). If applicable,
 you will defend your thesis/project during the second fall semester; or if not completing
 a thesis/project, will complete a comprehensive exit exam.
 
The State of Tennessee requires that RDs be licensed, as do most other states. You
 will be given instructions about licensure prior to graduation. If you are unable
 to complete the program in 16 months, you will be allowed to continue for eight additional
 months in order to allow for completion.
 
To view the University's Academic Calendar, please visit the Registrar's webpage. For a timeline of our program, click here.
 
 
The Credentialing Process to Becoming a Registered Dietitian
1. Completion of a minimum of a bachelor's degree at a U.S. regionally-accredited
 university or college and DPD coursework approved the Accreditation Council for Education
 in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND).*
 
2. Completion of an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program at a healthcare facility,
 community agency or a foodservice corporation, or combined with undergraduate or graduate
 students. The University of Memphis Clinical Nutrition Master's Program /Dietetic
 Internship is an ACEND accredited supervised practice program.
 
3. Pass a national examination administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration
 (CDR).
 
4. Complete 75 hours continuing professional educational requirements every five years
 to maintain registration.
 
*Effective January 1, 2024, the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) will require
 a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become
 a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). In addition, CDR requires that individuals
 complete coursework and supervised practice in program(s) accredited by the Accreditation
 Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND). In most states, graduates
 also must obtain licensure or certification to practice. Graduates who successfully
 complete the ACEND-accredited [program type] program at [Institution name] are eligible
 to [apply to an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program/apply to take the CDR
 credentialing exam to become an RDN]. 
 

Accreditation
The Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) is the
 accrediting agency for education programs preparing students for careers as registered
 dietitian nutritionists or nutrition and dietetics technicians, registered.
 
ACEND® can be contacted by:Email: ACEND@eatright.orgPhone: 800/877-1600, ext. 5400Mail: 120 South Riverside PlazaSuite 2190, Chicago, IL 60606-6995
 
ACEND® serves and protects students and the public by assuring the quality and continued
 improvement of nutrition and dietetics education programs. ACEND® is recognized by
 the U.S. Department of Education as a Title IV gatekeeper. This recognition affirms
 that ACEND® meets national standards and is a reliable authority on the quality of
 nutrition and dietetics education programs. ACEND® is also a member of the Association
 of Specialized and Professional Accreditors and abides by its code of good practice.
 It is ACEND’s considered opinion that the program is designed to and does meet all
 Tennessee state dietetics licensure and certification laws.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/12/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































