https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/undergraduate/health_sciences.php



 



Health Sciences - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate





 DieteticsAboutAdmissionsMissionCurriculumResourcesFAQ


Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences

Health Sciences

Healthcare Leadership

Physical Education Teacher Education

Sport Coaching

Medical Assisting (Minor)

Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor)

Accelerated BS to MS

Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses




Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	Health Sciences

Bachelor's Degree in Health Sciences
Also available as a UofM Global fully online degree


Promoting Healthy Lifestyles. Building Healthy Communities.
If you enjoy focusing on the health and well-being of others, you may want to complete
 a concentration in Health Sciences. This program provides the foundation, knowledge
 and skills needed to develop, manage, lead and evaluate health initiatives aimed at
 promoting the adoption and maintenance of healthy behaviors. The program also offers
 elective hours that provide an opportunity individualize the curriculum to meet specific
 career goals and requirements.   
 
Major: Health Studies

Concentration: Health Sciences
Degree: Bachelor of Science (BS)
BS degree sheet (subject to change)
 
Courses offered by semester
Also available online through UofM Global 
 

The Health Sciences concentration allows you to pursue your interests among the various
 health professions. It is grounded in health promotion theory and practice strategies,
 and offers elective hours allowing you to individualize your program to align with
 your own professional goals. With outstanding teaching and an emphasis on practical
 application, the program will prepare you to enter the job market or to pursue a graduate
 education in a variety of health fields such as:
 

Health promotion
Community health
Public health
Occupational therapy
Physical therapy
Dentistry
Dental hygiene
Physician assistant
Medicine
Optometry
Pharmacy
Sonography

and more…
You will extend your knowledge and skills beyond the classroom through an internship,
 taking what was learned in the classroom and applying it in professional settings.
 Internship settings are selected and secured by students and may include health departments,
 rehabilitation centers, community centers, hospitals, schools, corporate settings
 and a variety of other sites. 
 
Careers
Upon graduating, you can begin your career or continue your education in a variety
 of areas such as:
 
Health PromotionHealth educationHealth counseling/coachingCommunity wellnessCorporate wellnessPublic healthFitness and wellness
 
Pre-Professional FocusDental/dental yygieneOccupational/physical therapyOptometryPharmacyMedicine/ physicians assistantOther allied health sciences
 
 
For more info:Barbara McClanahan | bmcclnhn@memphis.eduShelly Stockton | mstocktn@memphis.edu Program Coordinators
 

Download the Health Sciences Brochure

Student Testimonials
"The University of Memphis Health Sciences program offers information around several
 different health and fitness organizations, courses on leadership, counseling, fitness
 instruction, and health habits and ways to apply each of these topics into real life
 scenarios. I feel as if this program is helping me gain the confidence I need to begin
 a successful career in the field of health and fitness." -Evan Gerrard
"The Health Sciences program has presented a way to narrow the many career and research
 opportunities that interested me. My research interests now involve holistic health,
 motivation and psychological health. Additionally, my background in psychology and
 counseling was easily integrated within this program and many of its courses." -Michael Gratton
"The classes included in the health sciences curriculum have been the most valuable
 learning experiences for me. Classes such as marketing, program development, counseling,
 aerobic and resistance training, and exercise physiology have all really helped. Actually,
 all of my Health Sciences classes have been influential in my new career!" -Misty Rackham
"The Health Sciences program offers a variety of classes that advanced my skills not
 just in making healthier lifestyle choices, but also in marketing, leadership, and
 program implementation and evaluation. These are skills that I will need to take with
 me to my next career or graduate school." -Stephanie Rozar
Research
Health Sciences faculty pursue research devoted to the applied study of health including
 personal health and wellness, behavior change, and community programming and design.
 Faculty members secure external funding to support their research, and their work
 is published in both national and international peer-reviewed journals.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/24/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































