https://www.memphis.edu/cjustice/programs/graduate.php



 



Graduate - 
 	Criminal Justice
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice
 	








Degree Programs
Advising
Internships
Lambuth
News
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





Undergraduate

 Graduate

About the Program

Graduate Courses

Graduate Application

Graduate Handbook

Contact Graduate Coordinator


Program Rankings




Take Action



Criminal Justice Student Association
Course Offerings
Contact Us
SUAPP








Home

 	Criminal Justice
 	

 	Programs
 	Graduate

Master of Arts in Criminal Justice
Dr. James McCutcheon, Coordinator of Graduate Studies
 
The Program
The graduate program of the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, which
 is part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, seeks to serve students
 who are interested in the criminal justice system, with a focus on those who seek
 careers in this area. Faculty conduct research and participate in program development
 relevant to the many different facets of criminology and criminal justice. A significant
 emphasis of the program is on developing partnerships with policymakers, program developers,
 and other community groups.
 
The graduate program provides students with a solid foundation of knowledge about
 criminology and criminal justice. The required course work provides students with
 the skills necessary for conducting and evaluating research. Graduate students have
 the opportunity to learn in both classroom and community settings and to work closely
 with faculty in all facets of research.
 
The objectives of the program are to provide students with an understanding of criminological
 principles, theories, and concepts, as well as an appreciation for the significance
 of social justice in public policy decisions. The program also strives to assist students
 in the development of critical analytical and research skills to prepare them for
 professional careers in the field of criminal justice.
 
To be considered for admission, the applicant should:


Possess a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university.


Have earned a grade point average of at least 3.00 on a scale of 4.00.


Achieved an acceptable score on the GRE. More information on the GRE can be found
 here. For Fall 2020 admissions only, the GRE requirement will be waived due to hardships
 caused by Covid19.


Submit a statement of purpose for graduate study in Criminology and Criminal Justice
 (two pages, double-spaced).


Submit a resume or CV.


Submit two letters of recommendation.


All application material should be received by July 1 (for Fall admission) and November
 1 (for Spring admission) and should be uploaded electronically through the Graduate
 School website portal. Any student planning to pursue a Graduate Assistantship should
 apply by March 15 in the Fall semester and October 1 for the Spring semester to receive
 full consideration.
 
Apply Now!
Program Requirements


A total of 33 semester hours of graduate work is required.


Up to 3 hours of thesis coursework will be counted toward the degree upon the completion
 and defense of the thesis. Students writing a thesis will have a thesis committee
 with no fewer than three members. For more information on the thesis option, click
 here.
 


Satisfactory completion of the following core curriculum (15 hours):


SUAP 7100 Public Policy Statistics


CJUS 7100 Criminal Justice Administration: Programs and Policies


CJUS 7128 Research Methods in Criminal Justice


CJUS 7161 Intervention Strategies: Changing Organizations and Communities


CJUS 7541 Criminological Theory: Causes of Crime




A minimum of 27 hours of coursework at the 7000 level, including thesis hours.


Up to nine hours of coursework may be taken outside the department with prior approval
 of the graduate coordinator.
 


Students will be allowed no more than six hours of credit toward the degree in non-classroom
 courses. Thesis hours will not count toward this six hour limit.
 


Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive examination covering the major areas of
 criminology and criminal justice.
 


Retention Requirements
All students are required to maintain a GPA of at least 3.00. Should the student's
 GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester will be allowed to correct the
 deficiency. At the discretion of the chair, the coordinator of graduate studies, and
 the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies, this period may be extended one additional
 semester.
 
Any student receiving a grade of D or F in a required course in the core curriculum
 will be terminated from the program.
 
Current Students
Meet the graduate students! A current list of our graduate students can be found here.
 
For information on attending an academic conference while enrolled in the program,
 click here.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 3/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































