https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/graduate/nutrition_science.php



 



Nutrition Science (MS) - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





Graduate Admissions

MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science

MS Health Promotion

MS Exercise Nutrition

MS Physical Education Teacher Education

MS Environmental Nutrition

MS Nutrition Science

 MS Clinical NutritionAboutAdmissionsMS & DI Combined ProgramResourcesStudentsPreceptors


 PhD Applied Physiology & NeuromechanicsAboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty





Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Graduate
 	Nutrition Science (MS)

Master's Degree in Nutrition Science 
 


The Nutrition Science concentration provides you with an excellent opportunity to
 pursue your interests in understanding the roles of nutrition in health and disease,
 development and aging, and in athletic performance. The objective of the Nutrition
 Science program is to ensure that you obtain an advanced and comprehensive education
 in the science of nutrition, along with research training that includes experimental
 design and analysis, laboratory skills, and experiences in scientific writing and
 presentations. Interdisciplinary opportunities exist with faculty in biological sciences,
 chemistry and biochemistry, exercise, sport and movement sciences, and psychology,
 as well as with faculty at other institutions within the Memphis area. You will have
 opportunities to study the influences of nutrition at levels of organization ranging
 from genes to intact organisms. 
 
The master’s degree in Nutrition Science is a 33-credit-hour program that offers a
 diversity of courses for you to develop a curriculum that is matched to your specific
 interests. Nutrition students may choose to do a research project culminating in a
 formal thesis or applied project. Students in the research arm of the program will
 need to identify a research advisor who will assist in forming a graduate committee
 to provide guidance in identifying courses and assisting in the design, performance,
 analysis and interpretation of your research. A second track is available where students
 will do either a laboratory residency or additional classes. If students decide to
 pursue the lab residency track or classes-only track, a written comprehensive exam
 is required for graduation.  Upon completing the degree program, you will be well
 prepared for advanced graduate study (PhD or MD), as well as for employment opportunities
 in academia, private industry or government. The multidisciplinary training available
 will position you to be a leader in the field of nutrition.
 
Nutrition is a broad field that spans multiple disciplines. Students entering the
 Nutrition Science program may have had previous training in various fields, bringing
 a diversity of backgrounds, expertise and experiences. We are specifically looking
 for students who want to be innovative, have a desire to learn and want to explore
 new areas of study.
 
You must have a minimum of a bachelor’s degree with some coursework in fields of study
 relevant to biological, chemical or nutritional sciences. Applicants will be selected
 for admission to the program based on a combination of grade point average, graduate
 record examination (GRE) scores within the past five years (optional), a narrative
 statement that includes career goals and letters of reference. Students will be accepted
 into the program on a rolling admission basis. To be considered for a graduate assistantship,
 it is recommended that the full application is submitted by April 1.
 
Major
Nutrition

Concentration: Nutrition Science
Degree: Master of Science (MS)
Degree Sheet

When completing the MS application, your major will be Nutrition with a concentration in Nutrition Science.
 
For more info:Marie van der Merwe | mvndrmrw@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

Testimonials
"I am very grateful for the unparalleled opportunities, experience and time I spent
 at the College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis. I have been very fortunate
 to interact with extraordinary faculty members, and train under their supervision,
 in both M.S. programs in Clinical Nutrition and Nutrition Science. Through their mentorship
 and guidance, I learned to think critically, to carry out the research, expand my
 knowledge in nutrition, and refine my laboratory skills in histology and immunology.
 In addition to the enjoyment of research and working in the lab, the College of Health
 Sciences motivated me to reach for my goals, be confident, and take responsibility
 for what I love to do. I can say without a doubt that the College of Health Sciences
 was founded for those who are looking to succeed in science." - Raed Ageeli MS
"The College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis has both challenged and
 strengthened me more than I thought possible. This is largely due to the phenomenal
 faculty in the M.S. in Nutrition Science program who have a passion for education
 and research that is unparalleled. In addition to greatly expanding my knowledge in
 nutrition, I worked on many research projects which exposed me to immunology, phlebotomy
 and a variety of lab techniques such as western blotting and histology. Learning how
 to work in a biochemistry laboratory was very rewarding and truly refined my critical
 thinking and problem solving skills. I can confidently say that the College of Health
 Sciences prepared me for my career in nutrition and research." - Jacqueline Marie Wyman, MS
"Thanks to my time and work at the College of Health Sciences, I have been able to
 grow and pursue dreams that were not previously possible. Through one-on-one mentorships
 with exceptional professors and interdisciplinary collaboration, I was prepared for
 further graduate study and research pursuits. Furthermore, my diverse experiences
 working as a graduate research assistant have provided me the tools to succeed in
 the competitive science field. I highly recommend the College of Health Sciences to
 anyone who is motivated and ready for a challenge." - Jessica L. Hill, MS, RN













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/27/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































