https://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/2021/november/presidenthardgrave.php



 



Dr. Bill Hardgrave - 
 	UofM Media Room
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			UofM Media Room
 	







Publications
News Releases
Events
Resources
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















News Releases





Awards

News Releases Archive




Take Action



Music Performance Calendar
Upcoming Art Exhibits
University Events
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	UofM Media Room
 	

 	News Releases
 	Dr. Bill Hardgrave

Dr. Bill Hardgrave named 13th President of the University of Memphis
Nov. 9, 2021 — Dr. Bill Hardgrave has been named the 13th President of the University of Memphis,
 the UofM’s Board of Trustees announced Tuesday.
 
Hardgrave served as Auburn University’s Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic
 Affairs since January 2018. He served as dean of Auburn’s Harbert College of Business
 from August 2010 through December 2017.
 
“I am very excited and humbled to become the next President of the University of Memphis,”
 said Hardgrave. “I grew up in Arkansas as a first-generation high school graduate
 and was well-aware of then-Memphis State University. I look forward to continuing
 the UofM’s recent phenomenal success academically and athletically as one of the two
 flagship universities in the state.
 
“I appreciate the belief that the Board of Trustees has in me as well as their trust
 that I can build upon the tremendous foundation that has been laid for the University
 of Memphis in the past few years. I can’t wait to be on campus and get started.”
 
As the chief academic officer, Hardgrave led Auburn’s 12 colleges and schools, including
 the College of Veterinary Medicine and School of Pharmacy, while overseeing academic
 resources, support units and instructional research programs. He led initiatives designed
 to promote student and faculty success and ensured the quality of student learning
 at the graduate and undergraduate levels. In addition, he managed the procedures for
 faculty recruitment, appointments, promotions and tenure.
 
“I believe that we have an obligation as a Board to support our next President every
 way that we possibly can, and perhaps the way that we can support our next President
 best is to connect him to the people that we serve,” said Doug Edwards, Chairman of
 the UofM Board of Trustees. “I feel with Dr. Hardgrave’s background, his work ethic,
 everything tells me he is somebody who wants to roll up his sleeves and do whatever
 it takes to take us to the next level.
 
“I am very pleased to have heard the comments of all of our trustees, and I am very
 pleased that we all have come to a common conclusion because the work is just starting.”
 
As dean of the Harbert College of Business, Hardgrave oversaw significant growth in
 student enrollment, undergraduate and graduate programs, resources for students and
 faculty and research advancements.
 
The college experienced unprecedented levels of philanthropic support under his leadership
 as he secured the then-largest donation in the history of Auburn University with a
 $40 million gift from Raymond Harbert in 2013. Harbert and his wife, Kathryn, also
 contributed an additional $15 million in 2016 in support of a graduate business building.
 
“I am very proud to support Dr. Hardgrave’s candidacy to be the next President of
 the University of Memphis,” said Carol Roberts, Chair of the Presidential Search Committee
 and Co-Vice Chair of the UofM Board of Trustees. “I believe that Dr. Hardgrave has
 the requisite skills, the experiences, but most importantly, the commitment to do
 what it is going to take to move our University to the next level.
 
“We have so much success in the foundation that we are building from, but we have
 so many challenges, and we want so much for our students and for our community. We
 need a leader who can help us get there, and, in my heart, truly believe that Dr.
 Hardgrave will have that capability. I am glad, and I am pleased to be able to say
 that I support Dr. Hardgrave as our next President."
 
Hardgrave launched the Auburn University RFID (radio frequency identification) lab,
 Geospatial Research and Applications Center and the Center for Supply Chain Innovation.
 He also oversaw the creation of a Business Analytics undergraduate major, a PhD program
 in Finance and an online MS in Finance.
 
The Harbert College of Business received external validation of its academic programs,
 including Top 10 national rankings for undergraduate Supply Chain Management, online
 MBA, online Master of Accountancy and online MS in both Finance and Information Systems.
 
Prior to Auburn, Hardgrave was the Bradberry Chair in Information Systems in the Sam
 M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas from 2001-10 and was the
 executive director of the Information Technology Research Institute, which he established
 in 1999. He also founded and directed the University of Arkansas’ RFID Research Center
 from 2005-10.
 
Hardgrave has published five books and more than 85 articles in leading journals such
 as MIS Quarterly, Production & Operations Management, Journal of Management Information
 Systems and the European Journal of Information Systems. His research has been cited
 in the Wall Street Journal, CNN, BusinessWeek and The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, among
 others. He has been awarded two patents.
 
In recognition of his contributions, Hardgrave has received the Ted Williams Award
 from AIM Global as the most influential researcher in the field of RFID and the Special
 Achievement award from the RFID Journal for his overall impact on the field. A highly
 sought-after speaker, he has delivered nearly 200 invited talks worldwide to a total
 audience of more than 35,000.
 
Hardgrave received a BS in Computer Science from Arkansas Tech University in 1987;
 an MBA with an emphasis in Computer Information Systems from Missouri State University
 in 1990 and a PhD in Management Information Systems from Oklahoma State University
 in 1993.
 
Hardgrave and his wife of 33 years, Ronda, have two children, Rachel, 26, and Gavin,
 20.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































