https://www.tntransferpathway.org/








TN Transfer Pathway | From Here to Career
































Skip to main content
















Search form






 






















 













Find Your PathwayTransfer GuaranteeAcademic Focus AreasApplied TechnologyArtsBusinessEducationHealth SciencesHumanitiesSTEMSocial SciencesTransfer by MajorTransfer By InstitutionContact a CampusSteps for SuccessContact USContact a Campus 




















































TENNESSEE TRANSFER PATHWAY
A college degree is valuable. So is your time and money. With the Tennessee Transfer programs, you can begin your college studies at a community college or similar two-year program and earn an associate degree, plus rest assured your credits will transfer to a bachelor’s degree program at any public university and many private universities in Tennessee.



How Do The Pathways Work?



A student who completes all the courses listed for the selected major of a Transfer Pathway will be able to earn an A.A. or A.S. degree from the community college. Whenever the student transfers to a Tennessee public or private college/university, the transcript will certify that the pathway has been followed. The student is guaranteed that all the community college courses taken will be accepted at the college/university and the courses will count toward completion of the particular major. If a community college student transfers to another Tennessee community college, he or she is guaranteed that all courses transfer. 


Important Note:
*Admission to UT, Knoxville is competitive. For UTK, the Pathways do not guarantee admission.
*Provided that all other admission criteria are met, individual TICUA institutions may require courses specific to their mission that do not result in additional time spent toward degree completion.





How do I get started with the Pathways?



It is important to understand each step in order to have a successful transfer experience. Read the steps for a successful transfer page here.







Academic Focus Areas




 




STEM

 

 




Health Sciences

 

 




Social Sciences

 

 




Education

 

 




Applied Technology

 

 




Arts

 

 




Humanities

 

 




Business

 

 




Find Your Focus Area

 



 Learn More About the Focus Areas 

 






 
 Transfer Guarantee 
 Guaranteed admission to a host of colleges and universities for community college students
 
 Learn more 

 
 Transfer by Major 
 Select from a list of approved programs
 
 Learn more 

 
 Transfer by Institution 
 Select from a list of participating community colleges and universities
 
 Learn more 

 





















Steps For a Successful Transfer




 

1


Get Advising


It is important as you make the decision to transfer that you consult an advisor. 
 More Info

 

 

2


Register with "Transfer" in Mind 


When you meet with your advisor each semester, remind him/her that you plan on transferring.
 More Info

 

 

3


Start Planning Today 


The longer you wait to make decisions, the longer it may take you to complete a degree.
 More Info

 

 

4


Meet With Your Current Advisor to Discuss Future Plans 


If you are planning to transfer the next semester, find out from your advisor what you need to do now.
 More Info

 

 

5


Review Application Process 


Become familiar with your chosen transfer institution’s academic calendar, deadlines, and more. 
 More Info

 

 

6


Attend New Student Orientation 


Become familiar with financial aid and fee payment processes as these vary from school to school.
 More Info

 


More Information For a Successful Transfer Experience

 


























 


 



 


 



 


 






Previous Next 


 


















































 


 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 



 


 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 



 


 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 






Previous Next 


 
























 











Tennessee Board of Regents is an AA/EEO employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age in its programs and activities.
Full Non-Discrimation Policy.













