https://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/undergraduate_programs/advertising.php



 



Advertising Major - 
 	JRSM
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
 	








About
B.A. Program
M.A. Program
People
Syllabi
Student Resources
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















B.A. Program





Advertising

Journalism

Public Relations

Creative Mass Media

JRSM Undergraduate Handbook

Transfer students

How to apply




Take Action



Apply to our Undergraduate Program
Apply to our Master's Program
Contact Us
AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	JRSM
 	

 	Undergraduate Program
 	Advertising Major

Advertising Major
If you dream of creating commercials for the Super Bowl, then advertising might be
 the career for you.
 
Advertising students study all phases of the industry from art direction to media
 planning and buying. For instance, advertising students write and design ads, conduct
 market research and develop campaigns. They sharpen their creative skills, learn the
 inner workings of the industry and gain the academic credentials needed for success.
 
An advertising professional work alone and with a team. People in advertising sell,
 create, think, strategize and execute ideas to connect people and products.
 
Advertising students can work for an advertising agency, a national or regional company,
 a media firm or a vendor. Job titles include, for example: copywriter, media planner
 and buyer, graphic designer, brand manager, media sales, account executive, social
 media marketer, creative director, marketing strategist, photo/video editor, promotions
 manager, event planner, photographer, market researcher and account planner.
 
Account Management
The responsibility of the account manager is to be the client's representative at the agency, and the agency's representative
 at the client's organization. It is his or her job to get the best possible work from
 the agency for the client-but at a profitable return for the agency. This means knowing
 how to handle people at the agency so that they give the client their best effort
 without spending more time than the income from the client's business justifies.
 
Account Planner
Account planners make sure the consumer's perspective is fully considered when advertising is developed.
 He or she works to continually focus and re-focus the agency's strategic and creative
 thinking on the consumer, helping the team—particularly the creatives—understand what
 "turns the consumer on." They study how consumers actually make use of marketing communications.
 Using that knowledge, they help the agency break out into new ways of communicating
 about products and services. They offer not only consumer insight, but a plan of action
 for approaching marketing communications challenges.
 
Creative/Art Director and Copywriter
The creative department of an advertising agency is responsible for developing the
 ideas, images and words that make up commercials and ads. While many people in the
 agency contribute to the process, the invention and production of advertising is mainly
 the responsibility of copywriters and art directors.
 
A copywriter writes body copy for print, radio or television campaigns and develops merchandising
 and sales promotion materials.
 
An art director assists prepares layouts for print ads and television storyboards, develops visual
 concepts and designs and oversees photo sessions and the filming of television commercials.
 
Media
The media department of an advertising agency is responsible for placing advertising where it will reach
 the right people at the right time and in the right place...and do so in a cost-effective
 way.
 
Planning and buying media at an advertising agency is exciting and challenging because
 ways of communicating are constantly changing and becoming more complex. Such technological
 advances as cable television and the internet, or digital make an impact on what media
 are available for advertising and how viewership is calculated.
 
Interactive
If you have ever visited a company's website, you have been part of how interactive marketing is changing the relationship between advertiser and the audience.
 
An important point to understand is to realize that with traditional marketing vehicles,
 companies had to find you to get your attention. In the world of interactive marketing,
 the consumer seeks out the company's web site and decides how long they will stay.
 They can tailor the experience to their own needs. This is why interactive marketing
 is the fastest growing phenomena in the media and marketing world.
 
Student AdFed
Students obtain real world experience through the annual American Advertising Federation's
 National Student Advertising Competition. Students research a product's strengths
 and potential buying audience. By joining the University of Memphis AdFed club, students
 interact with professionals from Memphis advertising agencies and network with advertising
 pros throughout the country.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/9/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































