https://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/undergraduate_programs/news.php



 



Journalism Major - 
 	JRSM
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
 	








About
B.A. Program
M.A. Program
People
Syllabi
Student Resources
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















B.A. Program





Advertising

Journalism

Public Relations

Creative Mass Media

JRSM Undergraduate Handbook

Transfer students

How to apply




Take Action



Apply to our Undergraduate Program
Apply to our Master's Program
Contact Us
AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	JRSM
 	

 	Undergraduate Program
 	Journalism Major

Journalism Major
If you love to know what is going on and are willing to get into the middle of interesting
 things, you might be great as journalist. A journalist is someone who works in television,
 magazines, newspapers, web publishing, social media—or as an entrepreneur who starts
 his or own company.
 
Students in the journalism major take classes in all aspects of journalism, including
 feature writing, social media, TV news producing and web publishing. Courses help
 students become writers, photographers, videographers, social media experts and web
 publishers.
 
Students can also pursue many activities outside the classroom that will help them
 be successful. For instance, the University of Memphis has chapters in two of the
 nation's premier journalism organizations—Society of Professional Journalists and
 the National Association of Black Journalists. Both organizations provide students
 with opportunities to engage with other students and professionals in print, broadcast
 and online media. Our students can also attend regional and national events with both
 organizations.
 
The best way for students to hone their skills as a journalist is to work at The Daily Helmsman, the award-winning campus newspaper; WUMR, the campus' radio station; or Tiger News, the weekly television newscast.
 
Journalists also have opportunities to pursue internships at websites, publications
 and broadcast television and radio stations in the Mid-South and around the nation.
 The combination of coursework, professional organizations, on-campus media and outside
 internships make for a successful journalist.
 
Here are nine tips for succeeding as a journalism major:


Get good grades 
Take your courses seriously. While a 3.0 GPA is good enough to make you eligible for
 scholarships, aim high. Do your best to stand out and be exceptional. Average or mediocre
 people are boring and soon forgotten. Professors are more likely to remember 'A' students,
 which is why they get recommended for jobs and internships.
 


Get media experience
Work for The Daily Helmsman, WUMR or Tiger News. All the experience you can get writing,
 shooting and creating online is valuable. Gather all your work on an online portfolio
 site so all can see your work. Good grades without experience and work samples mean
 nothing.
 


Get active in organizations
Professional organizations such as the NABJ and SPJ look great on a resume, and becoming
 an officer looks even better. Membership also lets you network with pros, who can
 help you in your career.
 


Win awards
There are plenty of opportunities to win awards for your work, and many awards are
 given to almost everyone who enters. They all look good on your resume.
 


Do an internship
Get out of the classroom and into the real world. Contact places you would like to
 work and offer your services. Many internships will not pay, but doing work for free
 is the key to getting paid for it in the future.
 


Go places
Get out of Memphis. See the world by doing a study abroad or go somewhere else in
 the USA on breaks. Travel is a great experience that makes you more knowledgeable
 about the world around you.
 


Be wise about finances
Be careful about taking out school loans. A loan debt is a burden that will hamper
 your career. Apply for scholarships and take advantage of discounts in summer tuition.
 


Know what's going on
You are going into the news business so you should know about what's happening in
 the news. Know about the news in your town, your country and your world. Watch the
 TV news. Read the local paper.
 


Be adaptable
The media environment changes every day. Being an expert in one area is not enough;
 you need to develop all of your media skills, from writing, and photography to criticism
 thinking, research and design. Your career will be multifaceted. You must be, too.
 















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/9/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































