https://www.memphis.edu/scholarships/



 



Scholarships - 
 	Scholarships
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Scholarships
 	







Important Announcements
Scholarship Opportunities
Tiger Scholarship Manager
HOPE Scholarship
Forms
FAQs
Summer 3+3









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 Now Accepting Applications 
 
 








 
 HOPE Scholarship
 
 


 
 Tennessee residents might be eligible for this scholarship
 
 





 
 Need more scholarship assistance?
 
 


 
 Explore these possible funding resources
 
 





 
 Service Hour Requirements
 
 


 
 What that means and options for fulfilling hours
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Tiger Scholarship Manager
Submitting a Scholarship Check
Service Hours
Contact Us








Home
 	Scholarships
 	






At this time, we are trying to limit face-to-face meetings, but we want to respond
 to your needs. 
Contact Us Online >
 
For updated information regarding the coronavirus and University operations, please
 visit memphis.edu/coronavirusupdates.
 


Check Out Our ACHIEVE + EXCEL Scholarship Program Guide
This resource is full of all the answers you need to understand the different ways
 to fund your college education.
 


High School Students and Parents
The University of Memphis selectively awards scholarships each year. All scholarships are awarded for the academic year (fall and spring semesters
 only). Scholarships are awarded based on information submitted on the UofM admissions
 application. For priority consideration, freshmen students should apply to the University
 of Memphis by December 1.
 
Our academic scholarships for first-time freshmen use a combination of the cumulative
 high school GPA and ACT/SAT scores for eligibility consideration. We also offer test
 optional academic scholarships based on high school GPA only. Most scholarships are
 four-year, renewable scholarships requiring full-time enrollment. Early application
 to the University of Memphis is strongly encouraged as scholarship awards are limited.
 
Students eligible for the State of Tennessee HOPE Scholarship Program (Lottery Scholarship)
 must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA) as specified by the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC). For more details
 regarding the Tennessee HOPE Scholarship Program, please go to the HOPE Lottery Scholarship website.
 
Admitted high school seniors intending to enroll for the Fall semester may also apply
 for private and departmental scholarships through the Tiger Scholarship Manager. You
 will log into your myMemphis portal to apply, and directions are provided Tiger Scholarship Manager How To Apply for Scholarships (PDF).
 
Please see the respective checklist below to ensure entering students & families stay
 on track for fall 2021 enrollment.
 
2022-2023 Student Checklist | 2022-2023 Parent Checklist
Current University of Memphis Students
Current students are encouraged to apply for private and departmental Scholarship Opportunities through the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Tiger Scholarship Manager provides a centralized,
 searchable database of all scholarship opportunities. This technology matches students
 to the financial resources they need to make their educational dreams a reality. You
 will log into Tiger Scholarship Manager to apply, and directions are provided here.
 
Community College Transfer and Four-Year University Transfer Students
Students interested in transferring to the University of Memphis are encouraged to
 apply for scholarship opportunities. A separate application is required for both the
 Community College Transfer Scholarship and Four-Year University Transfer Scholarship. Additional private and departmental scholarships may be available to students through
 Tiger Scholarship Manager. The application process is open. You will log into Tiger
 Scholarship Manager to apply, and directions are provided Tiger Scholarship Manager (PDF).
 
Please contact our office at scholarships@memphis.edu or 901.678.3213 if you have any questions regarding scholarships.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/22/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































