https://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/undergraduate/index.php



 



Department of Social Work Undergraduate - 
 	Social Work
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Social Work
 	








About
Programs
Apply Now
Students
Faculty & Staff
Research
Community









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate





 About the Bachelor of Arts in Social WorkHandbookSchool Social Work Licensure ProgramDCS Tuition Assistance & Certification Programs


 Prospective Social Work MajorsBrochureProgram RequirementsApplication to Declare SWRK Major


 Current StudentsDegree Planning SheetCourse SequenceSemester SchedulesAcademic AdvisingHumanities Requirement


 FieldField HandbookField AgenciesField FormsField Powerpoint


Financial Aid & Scholarships

UofM Undergraduate Catalog

Access UofM Campus Appointment Calendar

Virtual Career Center




Take Action



Learn more about Social Work
Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy
Support Social Work Education
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	Social Work
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	

Bachelor of Arts in Social Work

BA Social Work Mission
The baccalaureate social work program prepares students with the knowledge, values,
 and skills needed to work toward social and economic justice and human rights with
 diverse populations. Graduates of the Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Social Work will utilize
 evidence-based generalist-level practices to enhance quality of life for all persons
 and communities. Graduates of the BA in Social Work are prepared to practice locally
 in the Mid-South and globally.
 
Goal Statement
Provide a strong foundation for students who wish to pursue social work education
 at the graduate level. Social service and life experiences may not be substituted
 for any social work course. The social work program is accredited by the Council on
 Social Work Education.
 
Program Objectives
• Apply critical thinking skills within the context of professional social work practice• Understand the value base of the profession and its ethical standards and principles• Practice without discrimination to needs of diverse clientele• Apply strategies of advocacy and social change that advance social and economic
 justice
 
 
Are You Interested in a Career in Child Welfare?   
DCS Tuition Assistance Program
The Tennessee Department of Children's Services (DCS) offers a Tuition Assistance
 Program for undergraduate social work students interested in the field of child welfare.
 Eligible students can receive 3-4 semesters of tuition and stipend assistance from
 DCS in exchange for the student's agreement to work for DCS for 18-24 months after
 graduation. Students can apply when they have 3-4 semesters remaining in their program
 of study (as of Fall 2018). Students will be required to take SWRK 4934 (Child Welfare
 Policy/Services) and SWRK 4935 (Child Welfare II). In addition, they must complete
 their field placement with DCS. DCS is accepting applications for admission to the
 program for students who would be eligible to join the program in Fall 2018. The application
 deadline for Fall 2018 is June 15, 2018. Students interested in learning more about
 the DCS Tuition Assistance Program can contact Kelley Bell at Kelley.bell@tn.gov or at (615) 532-4063. All applications must be submitted directly to DCS no later
 than June 15. If interested, please complete the forms that are available here.
 
Lambuth Social Work Society: Organization for University of Memphis Lambuth Campus
 Students
The School of Social Work is happy to announce that through the efforts of our engaged
 students, the UofM Lambuth Campus is now home to the Lambuth Social Work Society!
 Social work majors and interested students are welcomed to join. Please visit the
 Society website or facebook page to get involved.
 
Contact Information
The social work office is located in 226 McCord Hall. The general contact information
 for administrators of the program is as follows:
 



School Chair
Susan Neely-Barnes, PhD
(901) 678-3438
snlybrns@memphis.edu


Program Coordinator
Jerry Watson, PhD
(901) 678-3910
jwtson28@memphis.edu


Field Director
Kenya Anderson
(901) 678-3400
kconley@memphis.edu


Academic Advisor
Danielle Seemann
(901) 678-3198
dswatson@memphis.edu


Administrative Assistant
Monica Crawford
(901) 678-2616
mscrwfr3@memphis.edu
















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 6/18/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































