https://www.memphis.edu/economics/programs/financial_economics.php



 



Business Economics with a Concentration in Financial Economics - 
 	ECON
 	 - The University of Memphis
 



























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Fogelman College - Department of Economics
 	







Welcome
Programs
Faculty
Research
FCBE









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact
























About

Programs

Faculty

Research

Contact Us




Take Action



Undergraduate Programs
Seminars
Contact Us
Return to FCBE




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	ECON
 	

 	Programs
 	Business Economics with a Concentration in Financial Economics 

Business Economics with a Concentration in Financial Economics
BUSINESS ECONOMICS WITH A CONCENTRATION IN FINANCIAL ECONOMICS (B.B.A.)  
A. University General Education Program (41 hours)
See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Note that MATH 1830 or
 1910 (Mathematics requirement) with a minimum grade of "C",  ECON 2010 and 2020 (Social/Behavioral
 Sciences requirement) are specified for the B.B.A. degree.
 
B. College and Degree (B.B.A.) Requirements (42 hours)
Lower Division Business Core Curriculum (12 hours)
No grade below “C” and 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in ECON 2010, ECON 2020
 and the following lower division courses
 

ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I (3)
ACCT 2020 Fundamentals of Accounting II (3)
ISDS 2710 Business Statistics (3) or MATH 1530 Prob/Statistics/Non Calculus (3)
MIS 2749 Introduction to Business Microcomputer Applications (3)

Upper Division Business Core Curriculum (30 hours)
No grade below "C" and 2.25 GPA in the following courses:

ACCT 3130 Legal, Social, and Political Environment of Business (3)
FIR 3410 Business Finance (3)
MGMT 3110 Organization and Management (3)
MGMT 4710 Strategic Management (3) (Enrollment usually limited to graduating seniors)
MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing (3)
MGMT 3510 Business Communication (3)
ISDS 3510 Production and Operations Management (3)
ISDS 3711 Analytical Tools for Business Decisions (3)
MIS 3210 Critical Thinking in Project Management for Business (3)

Choose One:
ACCT 4625 International Accounting: IFRS vs US GAAP (3); MGMT 4810 International Management
 (3); MKTG 4530 International Marketing (3); ECON 4350 International Economics (3);
 FIR 4550 International Finance (3); MGMT 4510 International Business Communication
 and Negotiation (3); HPRM 4400 International Hospitality (3); MIS 4310 Global Information
 Technology (3); ECON 4351 International Monetary Economics: Theory and Policy (3);
 one course from FIR 4110-4119 (3) when the topic pertains to international business
 and has been approved in advance by the department chair.
 
Transfer students are referred to the section Transfer Credit in the College of Business
 and Economics description.
 
C. The Major (24 hours)
No grade below "C" and a minimum 2.25 GPA in the major.
A minimum of 24 upper-division semester hours as follows:
For students choosing the Business Economics major with a concentration in Financial
 Economics: ECON 3310, 3320, and three upper-division economics courses (9 hours) and
 three upper-division FIR courses (9 hours) selected with the approval of the department
 advisor.
 
D. Electives (13 hours)
Lower division or upper division courses to bring the total of hours earned to 120.
E. Honors Program
All students who receive a minimum grade of B (3.0) in ECON 2010 or 2020 honors sections
 are eligible for the program. Entry to the program can also be obtained through the
 recommendation of a member of the faculty to the Department of Economics Honors Committee.
 A student must maintain a grade point average of at least 3.25 in economics to continue
 in the program and must have a minimum grade point average of 3.5 in economics to
 graduate with honors in economics. Honor students write a senior research paper. At
 commencement they are awarded the special distinction "With Honors in Economics.”
 Details of the program are available at the department office.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 5/28/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































