https://www.memphis.edu/physics/



 



Department of Physics and Materials Science - 
 	Department of Physics and Materials Science
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Physics and Materials Science
 	







About
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Research
Resources
News
SPS









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 The Department of Physics and Materials Science
 
 


 
 Located in Manning Hall by the fountain and Administration building
 
 





 
 Working together, learning together
 
 


 
 Students experimenting with the speed of sound waves in the Conceptual Physics Lab,
 one of our many facilities. 
 
 





 
 Magnetic Materials Research Lab
 
 


 
 Students synthesizing thin films in a thermal evaporator. Click here for more magnetic
 materials research information.
 
 





 
 Engaging Learners in Classroom Situations
 
 


 
 Students undertaking a projectile motion laboratory exercise in Physics I Teaching
 Lab
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Apply Now
Contact Us
Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture
Seminars & Events




Follow Us Online
Facebook




Home
 	Department of Physics and Materials Science
 	

Catalyst for innovative research in Physics and Materials Science, Education, and
 Training
 
Our Goal
Our goal is to advance scientific knowledge and innovation while at the same time
 educating the next generation of talented scientists. Our dedicated faculty supports
 this mission with cutting-edge research, unique programs, and a supportive learning
 environment. 

Physics and Materials Science Open House on October 15, 2021 in Manning Hall 
The Department of Physics and Materials Science is pleased to announce that it will
 host a Departmental Open House on October 15, 2021 from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m.  The purpose
 of the event is to invite high school juniors and seniors, and college students to
 learn about physics, astronomy, and materials science as well as the opportunities
 they offer as a college major and a career path. REGISTER HERE. 
 
Dr. Gandy shares that his course of study and mentors at the UofM influenced his career
 path, and we celebrate the achievements of an alumnus of the department. These insights
 into Dr. Gandy's thoughts about physics before, during and after his time as a student
 at the UofM provide helpful perspectives for students interested in or currently pursuing
 degrees or careers in physics. Read more here.
 
Physics Alumnus Dr. Rex Gandy Discusses His Career and the Impact of Physics on It
Dr. Gandy shares that his course of study and mentors at the UofM influenced his career
 path, and we celebrate the achievements of an alumnus of the department. These insights
 into Dr. Gandy's thoughts about physics before, during and after his time as a student
 at the UofM provide helpful perspectives for students interested in or currently pursuing
 degrees or careers in physics. Read more here.
 

 
Physics Summer Camp for High School Students in July
We are pleased to announce our 2021 Physics Summer Camp, which will be held in a virtual
 format from July 12 to July 16. This program will provide opportunities for high school
 students to learn about astronomy, space science, optics, and physics as it applies
 to biology and materials among other topics.  The virtual camp is open to high school
 sophomores, juniors, and seniors as of Fall 2021. For more information, please see
 the attached flyer and register here. 
 
REGISTER HERE
 
 
 
Remembering UofM Emeritus Professor Narahari Achar
It grieves us to announce that Professor Emeritus Narahari Achar passed away on April
 23, 2021. Dr. Narahari Achar joined the Physics faculty at the University of Memphis
 in 1984. He had a broad research interests ranging from topics in the electric properties
 of materials to applied fractional calculus to ancient astronomy and published prolifically
 in these areas. His wise, encouraging words and affable demeanor benefited his colleagues
 and students at the University of Memphis. He will be greatly missed.
 
We would invite you to visit Dr. Achar's online memorial, which is a testament to the positive impact his life had on faculty, staff, students--all
 those who had the pleasure of knowing him. The slide show below is offered in tribute
 to him.
 





Department of Physics and Materials Science Offer Preparation for Physics on the MCAT
 The Department of Physics and Materials Science is pleased to announce that we are
 offering Physics for MCAT. Registrations are due by May 22. For more information and to register, click here.
 
Fundraising Launch for Voyage Solar System Scale Model at Main UofM Campus; Please Follow Link to Explore
 and Donate
 
The Department of Physics and Materials Science is proud to announce UofM approval
 of a scale model of the solar system contingent on the funds being raised. The Voyage
 Solar System model is on a 10 billion-to-one scale, which corresponds to 2,000 feet
 from the Sun to Pluto for this model. It is envisioned that it would lie along a north-south
 walkway passing through the center of the main UofM campus as shown in the pictures
 below.  Please follow this link to learn more and donate.  Matching funds will be provided for up to $20,000 in donations.
 


Dr. Meg Urry of Yale University to Deliver 2021 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed
 Lecture in Physics (Register Here)
 
It is an honor to announce that Dr. Meg Urry will deliver the 2021 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics on the topic of Black Holes, Galaxies and the Evolution of the Universe. The lecture
 will be streamed online via Zoom on Friday, March 26, 2021 at 6:30 p.m. Dr. Urry is the Director of the Yale Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics at Yale
 University. This lecture will trace the development of black holes at the center of
 galaxies throughout the history of the universe as this influences galactic evolution.
 Descriptions of a black hole will be presented, and the process by which the universe
 evolved to its present state will be elucidated through the presentation of recent
 observations and computer simulations.
 
Register Here.

Physics Alumna Michele Wilson Recalls Time at UofM; Describes Influence it had on
 Career 
 
Studying physics provides insight and understanding into many facets of the natural
 world: from learning about the fundamental concepts of matter, motion, forces, energy,
 and heat to the skills and techniques that yield solutions to complicated and important
 real-world problems. Michele Wilson reminisces about the journey that led her to study physics, shares experiences of
 her time as a Physics student at the UofM, and provides insight into how the breadth
 and depth of her physics training contributed to her rewarding career path.
 
 

Accepting Applications for Summer 2021 REU at the University of Memphis
Applications are now being accepted for the Research Experiences for Undergraduates
 (REU) at the University of Memphis. The 10-week, research-intensive program will start
 on June 7, 2021 and will end on August 13, 2021. The deadline to apply is February
 28, 2021. For more information please see or download the flyer to the right.
 
 
 
UM Physics Professor Discusses Nobel Prize Winning Work of his Ph.D. Advisor Dr. Reinhard
 Genzel
 
On December 8, 2020, the Nobel Prize Ceremony took place, in which Dr. Reinhard Genzel
 (along with Dr. Roger Penrose and Dr. Andrea Ghez) gave his Nobel Lectures and was
 awarded 2020 Nobel Prize in Physics. Please follow this link to see Dr. Muller Sanchez discuss the details of this scientific discovery. Additionally,
 Dr. Muller Sanchez shares what it was like to work with Dr. Genzel and the factors
 that contributed to his success.
 
Department of Physics and Materials Science News and Highlights
Follow the Department of Physics and Materials Science faculty and students in their
 research, presentations, travels and accomplishments.  Read More













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































