https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/programs/dls.php



 



Doctor of Liberal Studies - 
 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	








Areas of Study
Online
Resources
Community Engagement
Connect









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Find the program that's right for you
Become a part of CPLS
Advising Appointments
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	

 	Areas of Study
 	Doctor of Liberal Studies

Doctor of Liberal Studies
The College of Professional & Liberal Studies at the University of Memphis is pleased
 to offer a Doctor of Liberal Studies (DLS) degree. The University of Memphis becomes
 only the third school in the nation to offer this terminal degree which allows participants
 to design their own interdisciplinary doctoral program focused on areas of interest
 to the student. 
 
For more information on this exciting new program, please contact College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies at 901.678.2716 or cplsgrad@memphis.edu.
 
Program Details
Because each DLS student follows a unique course of study (see examples), students work with academic advisors to develop a curriculum proposal that satisfies
 both the interdisciplinary intent of the DLS program and the Graduate School's requirements
 for graduation. Students may choose to create a campus or online course of study. 
 
Every DLS student is required to complete and submit a Coordinated Study grid before being admitted to the program. The Coordinated Study grid is a planning document
 that students use to identify the classes that will constitute their degree. Students
 may combine courses from any two or more disciplines with guidance and approval from
 an academic advisor. Please contact your advisor for any questions about the Coordinated
 Study grid.
 
Students will complete twenty-one (21) hours of College of Professional & Liberal
 Studies core requirements, and thirty-three (33) hours for the Coordinated Study.
 No more than 18 credit hours may come from any single department, and a maximum of
 12 credits of Experiential Learning Credit can be applied to the degree. All courses
 must be at the Graduate level and at least 27 hours must be at the 7000-level or above. 
 Each student completes a Coordinated Study grid before starting the program by selecting
 from two or more disciplines. That grid serves as a working agreement between the
 student and the College of Professional & Liberal Studies. The Coordinated Study grid
 must also identify at least three alternative courses that could be taken in the event
 that any of the student's primary course selections are not offered during the term
 of the student's enrollment.
 
At the time of admission to the DLS program, the students advisor approves the course
 of study as reflected on the Coordinated Study Grid that accompanies the application
 essay. Students then enroll each semester in available courses from the approved plan
 in a sequence of study. Within two weeks after the start of the final semester, students
 will submit a final program proposal that reiterates the student's academic goals
 (if necessary, reflecting any changes that have developed since admission) and identifies
 the Coordinated Study courses actually completed. Major deviations from the original
 approved plan require department pre-approval and will be addressed at the time of
 registration each semester.
 
Students enrolled in the DLS degree will earn a total of 54 hours of post-master's
 coursework at the 7000 and/or 8000 course level, successfully complete comprehensive
 exams and defend the Dissertation/Capstone Project. The 54 hours include two segments:
 the DLS Core and the Coordinated Study.
 
The DLS Core is required of all students, and consists of twenty-one (21) designated
 credit hours:
 
UNIV 8000 - Foundations in Liberal Studies (3 hours)UNIV 8100 - Research in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 hours)UNIV 8200 - Liberal Studies Seminar (3 hours)UNIV 8111 - Data-Based Decision Making (3 hours)UNIV 8990 - Prospectus Design (3 hours)UNIV 9000 - Dissertation / Capstone Project (6 hours)
 
Applying for Admission to the Program
Applications for the Fall semester must be received by August 1; Spring semester by
 December 1; and Summer term by May 1.
 
All applicants must have earned a Master's degree from a regionally accredited U.S.
 college or university, with a cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.25 on a 4.0
 scale in all earned graduate coursework. International Master's degrees will be evaluated
 on an individual basis. Applicants are selected on a competitive basis, so admission
 is not guaranteed to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements and the
 college will not comment on the reasons for individual applicant's admission or lack
 thereof. Since all College of Professional & Liberal Studies Graduate Programs aim
 to produce lifelong learners and competitive members of the workforce, applicants'
 submitted materials are scrutinized not only for content and but also for presentation,
 organization, professionalism, and compliance with the program's specific application
 instructions, which are listed below.
 
For those wishing to apply for the Graduate Teaching Assistantships with the DLS program,
 please contact Dr. Colin Chapell at colin.chapell@memphis.edu. These competitive assistantships will provide tuition plus a $12,000 annual stipend
 (dispersed in eight payments throughout the academic year). GTA responsibilities will
 include teaching undergraduate courses commensurate with qualifications as well as
 other administrative responsibilities.
 
To apply for this program, you will need to complete an application, which will require the following documents:
 


Portfolio: Applicant's should submit a portfolio of professional work experience along with a
 detailed statement of educational and professional goals.
 
Recommendation Letters: Applicants must submit at least three official letters of recommendation, preferably from a previous or current instructor who can attest to the student's
 capacity for graduate work. All recommendation letters must meet College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies requirements or they will not be accepted.
 
Coordinated Study Grid: Applicants must submit a completed Coordinated Study Grid detailing the intended course of study.
 
Writing Sample: Applicants must submit an original research-based writing sample of 20-30 pages in
 length.


For technical questions regarding the application, please contact UM Graduate School
 Customer Support:Phone: 617.612.2943Email: uofmgradunicas@liaisoncas.com
For questions regarding admission requirements, please contact the College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies Graduate Programs: cplsgrad@memphis.edu 
The DLS program does not require the GRE for admission. However, if you have taken
 the GRE or any similar entrance exam, please submit your scores in your application.
 
Applicants may also be required an interview for this program. If deemed necessary,
 the interview will be scheduled as a component of the application process prior to
 the acceptance. Interviews are conducted in person or by video conference.
 

Only after your application is completed and all required documents are submitted
 will a final decision be made on the application. Please note that the Graduate School
 will notify applicants once a decision has been reached.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































