https://www.memphis.edu/research/facilities/centers_institutes.php



 



Research Centers and Institutes - 
 	Division of Research and Innovation
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Division of Research and Innovation
 	







About
Vision, Mission, & Values
Researchers
Business & Partners
News
Facilities









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Facilities





Core Facilities

Centers & Institutes




Take Action



For Researchers
For Business
Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan
Contact Us




@UofMemphis 
FacebooktwitterLinkedn




Home

 	Division of Research and Innovation
 	

 	Facilities
 	Research Centers and Institutes

Research Centers and Institutes
About This Page
This list of Research Centers and Institutes at the University of Memphis provides
 descriptions and links to active research centers on campus.
 
Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change
The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change promotes its mission of teaching,
 studying and promoting civil rights and social change primarily through teaching,
 research, innovative campaigns, and community engagement. For more than twenty years,
 the Hooks Institute has developed an impressive track record of educating, engaging,
 and empowering the community.
 
Learn More
Bureau of Sport and Leisure Commerce
The Bureau of Sport and Leisure Commerce was selected by the National Association
 of Collegiate Marketing Administrators (NACMA) to collect data on student attendance
 at college athletic events. The ongoing research is led by Cody T. Havard and Timothy
 D. Ryan.
 
Learn More
Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research (CAESER)
Simply put, CAESER builds smarter, stronger communities. We work with local, regional,
 and international communities; with particular focus on urban analytics, water resources,
 disaster resilience, GIS data, and education/outreach in these areas.
 
Learn More
Center for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR)
Founded in 1984, CAPR is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence. In 1988
 the Center was designated as an Accomplished Center of Excellence in recognition of
 the consistently high quality research, teaching and service. CAPR's goals are to
 achieve national prominence in the application of psychological knowledge to individual
 and social problems, to increase the level of extramural funding of the Department
 of Psychology in order to facilitate research and training, and to increase the number
 of trained psychologists able to apply relevant knowledge to individual and social
 problems.
 
Learn More
Center for Biodiversity Research(CBio)
CBio is dedicated to advancing our knowledge of biodiversity at all levels of organization,
 from the molecular building blocks of life, to the biosphere, as well as the relationships
 between humans and biodiversity. We seek to increase the volume, impact and visibility
 of research at the UofM by encouraging, enabling, and supporting collaborative biodiversity
 research and graduate student training. Our work falls into three broadly overlapping
 focal areas of biodiversity science: (1) ecology, evolution, and organismal biology,
 (2) genetics, genomics and bioinformatics, and (3) conservation, global change, education,
 agriculture and urban environments.  
 
Learn more
Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies (BEST)
The Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies (BEST) at The University
 of Memphis was established to formulate effective holistic responses to our national
 energy system challenges.
 
Learn More
Center for Community Research and Evaluation (CCRE)
The University of Memphis has launched the Center for Community Research and Evaluation
 (CCRE), a social science research center in the College of Arts and Sciences. The
 mission of CCRE is to provide interdisciplinary social science research and evaluation
 support for community-based projects. CCRE's interdisciplinary team of social scientists
 leverages the power of data and scientific methodology to support important community
 projects. With years of experience in helping nonprofit and community-based organizations
 identify and convey the impact of their efforts, the team offers services covering
 every step of the formative and evaluative process, including proposal development,
 data strategy, collection, analysis, visualization and reporting.
 
Learn More
Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI)
CERI is one of five Centers of Excellence at the University of Memphis. Faculty, researchers,
 students and staff dedicate their time and energy to understanding the causes and
 physical consequences of earthquakes; and their impact on society. CERI faculty and
 researchers focus on a wide variety of problems in geophysics, seismology, geodesy,
 exploration, geodynamics, source physics, and engineering seismology.
 
Learn More
Center for Health Literacy and Health Communication
Under the direction of Dr. Joy Goldsmith and Dr. Sachiko Terui, Core Faculty, and
 an Advisory Board, the CHLHC is committed to developing health literacy and health
 communication interventions, resources, and networks for providers, patients, family
 caregivers, health systems, and community organizations. The CHLHC tests and pilots
 interdisciplinary communication interventions, disseminates communication approaches
 and tools, and researches outcomes associated with health literacy and health communication
 across health contexts and populations.
 
Learn More
Center for Information Assurance
The Center for Information Assurance is a nationally designated Center of Academic
 Excellence in Cyber Defense Education and Research. Their research focuses on negative
 authentication, adaption multi-factor authentication, smart-grid security, and game
 theory applications in cyber security.
 
Learn More
Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research 
The Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research (CNDSR) is housed within
 The School of Health Studies at The University of Memphis. The mission of the Center
 is to investigate botanical agents, dietary ingredients, and finished dietary supplements
 in terms of safety and efficacy, through the use of cell culture experiments, animal
 studies, and human clinical trials.
 
Learn More
Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research (CRER)
The Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research conducts research, educates
 and trains job-seekers, and provides employment, career, and rehabilitation services
 geared towards enhancing employment and career development opportunities for individuals
 who have been chronically unemployed and underemployed. The Center's interdisciplinary
 research approach focuses on how social, psychological, organizational, cultural,
 economic, and medical factors impact the employment and career development of certain
 groups.
 
Learn More
Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP)
The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) is a designated State Center
 of Excellence. CREP is dedicated to improving student learning by serving as a valuable
 resource in PreK-12 educational research, evaluation, and consultation. They also
 provide services in instrument development and assessment to institutions of higher
 education, non-profits, community organizations, and businesses.
 
Learn More
Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired (CRISCI)
The Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired
 (CRISCI) was established in 1984. The activities of the CRISCI encompass a wide range
 of research and services in communication disorders. From the outset, its principal
 goals have been to develop innovative clinical procedures for the communicatively
 impaired, create a model service delivery program for the Mid-South region, and establish
 an outstanding research program in communication disorders.
 
Learn More
Center for the Study of Higher Education
The purpose of the Center for the Study of Higher Education (CSHE) is to study, promote
 and support life-long learning. This interest extends to both formal and informal
 post-secondary learning opportunities, to both institutional and individual efforts,
 and to both developmental needs and organizational needs. One of the primary areas
 on which the Center focuses is leadership development.
 
Learn More
Chucalissa Museum and Indian Village
The C.H. Nash Museum was founded in 1956 following the 1930s rediscovery of a Mississippian
 mound complex by workers preparing for the Jim Crow era Shelby County Negro Park (now
 the T.O. Fuller State Park). The earthen mounds (still standing today) are believed
 to have been constructed and occupied between 1000-1500 AD by the people of the Mississippian
 culture who used platform mounds for ceremonies and residences of high-ranking officials
 within their culture. The site is now used as a laboratory for training archaeologists
 and as a place for the public to come and learn more about the remarkable science
 of archaeology.
 
Learn More
Computational Research on Materials Institute at UofM (CROMIUM)
Computational Research on Materials Institute at University of Memphis (CROMIUM),
 established in 1998, fosters computational research, research training, and education
 at both the graduate and undergraduate levels across the university. The main role
 of CROMIUM is to actively encourage and facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations
 with researchers on and off campus. The shared resources provided by High Performance
 Computing (HPC) on campus serve as a vital nexus for advancing collaboration and reaching
 successful external funding outcomes.
 
Learn More
Crews Center for Entrepreneurship
The Crews Center for Entrepreneurship encourages and supports a culture of entrepreneurship
 at the University of Memphis, helping faculty and student entrepreneurs as they focus
 their passions and commercialize their ideas, research, and inventions into the foundations
 of successful companies.
 
Learn More
Ecological Research Center (ERC)
The Ecological Research Center serves as a research and advisory asset to the regional
 community. Ensuring ecologically sound planning and development within the urban environment
 is the most vital goal of the Center. The Center assists in the identification of
 ecologically related problems and avenues for resolution.
 
Learn More
Edward J. Meeman Biological Station
The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station consists of two sites: The Meeman site (623
 acres; 252 ha) and the Brunswick site (367 acres; 149 ha). Faculty from The University
 of Memphis and several other institutions in the Mid-South utilize the facility for
 research purposes. Ongoing research programs include river and wetland ecology, wildlife
 ecology, plant community ecology, population ecology, evolutionary ecology, ecological
 genetics, and others.
 
Learn More
Human Performance Center
The Human Performance Center provides elite science support to improve human performance
 by solving applied practical challenges. The strength of the Human Performance Center
 is the scientific background of the highly credentialed scientists involved, which
 when combined with the experiential knowledge of practitioners, becomes a unique resource
 to the University of Memphis.
 
Learn More
Institute for Arts and Health
The Institute for Arts and Health aims to contribute to a more just and equitable
 society by  facilitating opportunities for faculty, staff, graduate students, and
 community partners to share best practices and explore opportunities to develop and
 secure funding for transdisciplinary research projects, curricular developments, and
 to have a visible impact in the community broadly related to the arts and health.
  The newly inaugurated Institute is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion
 through its support of a wide range of projects and events. Current areas of focus
 include, but are not limited to, Health for the Arts, the Arts in Health, and Health,
 Well-being and the Built Environment. The Institutes welcomes expressions of interest
 from colleagues across the University of Memphis and from our broader local community.
 
Learn More
Institute for Gambling Education and Research
The Institute of Gambling Education and Research (TIGER) is composed of the Gambling
 Clinic and the Gambling Lab. The Gambling Clinic treats individuals with gambling
 disorders, trains professionals and doctoral students, educates consumers, as well
 as develops tools to measure and intervene with excessive gambling behavior.
 
Learn More
Institute for Intelligent Systems
The IIS is dedicated to advancing the state of knowledge and capabilities of intelligent
 systems, including psychological, biological, and artificial systems. By conducting
 cutting-edge research and publishing our findings in peer-reviewed venues, we contribute
 to the discipline and, ultimately, to the public. In doing so, we are also training
 the next generation of scientists.
 
Our mission depends on an interdisciplinary approach that brings together researchers
 from many different research areas in the cognitive sciences, including biology, communication
 sciences & disorders, computer science, education, engineering, linguistics, philosophy,
 physics, and psychology.
 
Learn More
Institute for Interdisciplinary Memphis Partnerships to Advance Community Transformation
 Center 
 
iIMPACT is an umbrella structure designed to transform community engagement and research
 within The University of Memphis. Our intent is that Institute for Interdisciplinary
 Memphis Partnerships to Advance Community Transformation (iIMPACT) serves as a catalyst
 for collaborative, cross-disciplinary prevention and mitigation of adverse childhood
 events (ACEs) and their effects.
 
Learn More
Institute for Nanomaterials Development & Innovation at the University of Memphis
 (INDIUM)
 
INDIUM was established in 2004 to promote development and innovation in the research
 of nanomaterials. INDIUM's mission is to facilitate interdisciplinary research and
 education in nanoscale science and engineering at the University of Memphis and collaborating
 institutions and serve as a nanotechnology research and education hub for Southwest
 Tennessee and surrounding areas. INDIUM currently includes faculty members in chemistry,
 physics, biology, and biomedical engineering.
 
Learn More
Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology
The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology (IEAA) is a Tennessee Center of Excellence.
 It is a component of the Department of Art at The University of Memphis. The IEAA
 is dedicated to the study of the art, history and culture of ancient Egypt through
 teaching, research, exhibition, and community education.
 
Learn More
Institute for Public Service Reporting
The Institute for Public Service Reporting at The University of Memphis produces robust,
 independent investigative and enterprise reporting while also providing hands-on training
 to UofM students. The Institute aims to help fill gaps in coverage to promote investigative
 journalism and the free flow of information that is vital to democracy.
 
Learn More
Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute (IFTI)
IFTI offers an administrative home for a wide range of multi-disciplinary research
 and curricular initiatives as well as public-private partnership endeavors collectively
 designed to provide national leadership on issues related to intermodal freight transportation.
 IFTI addresses critical issues affecting the planning, design and operation of the
 nation's intermodal freight transportation systems with an emphasis on the intermodal
 issues that have local significance with national and international implications.
 
Learn More
Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities
Named in honor of one of the university's most beloved Professors of History, the
 Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities (MOCH) leads and supports an array of initiatives
 aimed at broadening and deepening humanistic inquiry not only within the University
 of Memphis community but in the city of Memphis and the wider Mid-South region.
 
Learn More
Center for Excellence in Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K)
MD2K is a consortium of 11 universities and university medical centers, headquartered
 at the University of Memphis. The 22 collaborating investigators collectively represent
 the best and brightest minds in data science, mobile sensing, and biomedical research.
 The center is organized into four operating cores (data science research, training,
 administration, and consortium) with data science research efforts structured into
 four primary thrust areas: Thrust 1, Mobile Sensor Data to Information (MD2I); Thrust
 2, Mobile Sensor Information to Knowledge (MI2K); Thrust 3, MD2K-Implementation; and
 Thrust 4: MD2K-Application.
 
Learn More
Methodist LeBonheur Center for Healthcare Economics
The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics (MLCHE) was established in
 March 2003 with a grant from Methodist Healthcare and Le Bonheur Systems, Inc. MLCHE
 focuses on issues of efficiency, effectiveness, and equity in healthcare through a
 variety of research, internship, instruction, and public service programs.
 
Learn More
Public Safety Institute
The PSI is funded initially through the Memphis Shelby Crime Commission, a private
 non-profit 501(c)(3) organization that serves as a leadership team for reducing crime
 in Memphis and Shelby County. The primary mission of the Crime Commission is to spearhead
 a plan (Operation: Safe Community) to significantly improve public safety in the Memphis
 area, galvanize diverse leaders and stakeholders in the implementation and support
 of the plan, and manage the hard work necessary to achieve implementation.
 
Learn More
Robert Wang Center for International Business
The Robert Wang Center for International Business was established in 1987. As part
 of the Fogelman College at the University of Memphis, the Wang Center serves as a
 catalyst and a forum for ongoing analysis, training and discourse on the global economy
 and the challenges of global competition for American business and higher education.
 
Learn More
Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP)
The Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) is a major interdisciplinary research
 initiative under the umbrella of the FedEx Institute of Technology with academic program
 support from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. STEP focuses on testing
 research, providing a world class testing training and education center through quality
 industry certification training and academic curricula, and creating a hub for testing
 by providing an international forum for learning and dissemination of testing knowledge.
 
Learn More
University of Memphis Institute on Disability
UMID is an entity with a focus on enhancement of the condition of persons with disabilities
 through the rigorous and comprehensive interdisciplinary exploration of new knowledge.
 It provides and promotes scholarly and community-based exploration of this knowledge
 by means of creative scholarly research, learner-based teaching, and constituent-based
 community service in the Memphis area and throughout the world.
 
Learn More
 
 














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/22/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































