https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/programs/mals.php



 



Master of Arts in Liberal Studies - 
 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	








Areas of Study
Online
Resources
Community Engagement
Connect









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Find the program that's right for you
Become a part of CPLS
Advising Appointments
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	

 	Areas of Study
 	Master of Arts in Liberal Studies

Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS)
The Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) program at the University of Memphis
 allows students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study. This program is
 offered both on campus and fully online and features a flexible, adaptable curriculum
 that students can tailor for the broadest possible application and personal enrichment.
 It is designed to sharpen the intellectual skills necessary for lifelong learning—critical
 reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication.
 
Program Details
Because each MALS student follows a unique course of study, students work with academic
 advisors to develop a curriculum proposal that satisfies both the interdisciplinary
 intent of the MALS program and the Graduate School's requirements for graduation.
 
Every MALS student is required to complete and submit a Coordinated Study grid before being admitted to the program. The Coordinated Study grid is a planning document
 that students use to identify the classes that will constitute their degree. Students
 may combine courses from any two or more disciplines with guidance and approval from
 an academic advisor. 
 
The Coordinated Study is comprised of twenty-one (21) credit hours selected by the
 student from two or more disciplines. No more than 12 credit hours may come from any
 single department, and a maximum of 12 credits of Experiential Learning Credit can
 be applied to the degree. All courses must be at the Graduate level and at least 12
 hours of the Coordinated Study must be 7000-level courses or above. Each student completes
 a Coordinated Study grid before starting the program, and that grid serves as a working
 agreement between the student and the College of Professional & Liberal Studies. The
 Coordinated Study grid must also identify at least three alternative courses that
 could be taken in the event that any of the student's primary course selections are
 not offered during the term of the student's enrollment.
 
At the time of admission to the MALS program, the student's advisor approves the course
 of study as reflected on the Coordinated Study Grid that accompanies the application
 essay. Students then enroll each semester in available courses from the approved plan
 in a sequence of study. Within two weeks after the start of the final semester, students will submit a final
 program proposal that reiterates the student's academic goals (if necessary, reflecting
 any changes that have developed since admission) and identifies the Coordinated Study
 courses actually completed. Major deviations from the original approved plan require
 department pre-approval and will be addressed at the time of registration each semester.
 
Students enrolled in the MALS degree will complete at least 33 credit hours, successfully
 present a Special Project (UNIV 7997), and pass an oral comprehensive examination.
 The 33 hours include two segments: the MALS Core and the Coordinated Study.
 
The MALS Core is required of all students, and consists of twelve (12) pre-selected
 credit hours:
 

UNIV 7000 Foundations of Liberal Studies (3 hours)
 
UNIV 7100 Research in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 hours)
 
UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar (3 hours)
 
UNIV 7997 Special Project (3 hours)
 

Students wishing to take UNIV 7997 must submit a proposal to their advisor in the
 semester prior to taking the course to receive approval. Access our Proposal Approval Form and review deadlines and additional details.
 
Applying for Admission to the Program
Applications for the Fall semester must be received by August 1; Spring semester by
 December 1; and Summer term by May 1.
 
All applicants must have completed an undergraduate degree with a cumulative grade
 point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university. Applicants
 are selected on a competitive basis, so admission is not guaranteed to all applicants
 who meet only the minimum requirements. Since all College of Professional & Liberal
 Studies Graduate Programs aim to produce lifelong learners and competitive members
 of the workforce, applicants' submitted materials are scrutinized not only for content
 and but also for presentation, organization, professionalism, and compliance with
 the program's specific application instructions, which are listed below
 
To apply for this program, you will need to complete an application, which will require the following documents:
 

Resumé: The applicant's resumé should include the applicant's employment history, academic
 history, current contact information, and any additional relevant information, such
 as professional skills, training, presentations, publications, etc.
 
Recommendation Letters: Applicants must submit at least one official letter of recommendation, preferably from a previous or current instructor who can attest to the student's
 capacity for graduate work. All recommendation letters must meet College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies requirements or they will not be accepted.
 
Coordinated Study Grid: Applicants must submit a completed Coordinated Study Grid detailing the intended course of study.
 
Personal Essay: Applicants must submit a brief, original essay (approximately 500-600 words) that
 addresses the following points:
 
 
Why is the MALS program the best choice for pursuing your personal and intellectual
 goals?
 
How have your academic and professional experiences prepared you for this program?
What is the theme of the program of study you want to pursue, and how will your Coordinated
 Study courses develop that theme?
 
Why do you think you are a good candidate for the MALS program?



For technical questions regarding the application, please contact UM Graduate School
 Customer Support:Phone: 617.612.2943Email: uofmgradunicas@liaisoncas.com
For questions regarding admission requirements, please contact the College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies Graduate Programs: cplsgrad@memphis.edu 
The MALS program does not require the GRE for admission. However, if you have taken
 the GRE or any similar entrance exam, please submit your scores in your application.
 
Applicants may also be required to interview this program. If deemed necessary, the
 interview will be scheduled as a component of the application process prior to the
 acceptance. Interviews are conducted in person or by video conference.
 

Only after your application is completed and all required documents are submitted
 will a final decision be made on the application. Please note that the Graduate School
 will notify applicants once a decision has been reached.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































