https://www.memphis.edu/herff/programs/eece.php



 



Electrical & Computer Engineering Programs - 
 	Herff College of Engineering
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Herff College of Engineering
 	








About
Future Students
Students
Programs
Research
Alumni
Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Engineering Departments





Biomedical Engineering

Civil Engineering

Electrical and Computer Engineering

Engineering Technology

Mechanical Engineering




Take Action



Visit Herff
Apply to UofM
Orientation 2021
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterLinkedn




Home

 	Herff College of Engineering
 	

 	Engineering Departments
 	Electrical & Computer Engineering Programs

Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering Programs
Electrical Engineering & Computer Engineering programs provide the technology that created the information age in which we live.
 From the telephone, television and radio to smartphones, gaming consoles and the Internet,
 electrical engineering and computer engineering continue to drive the technical advances
 that radically alter our lives. For the future, electrical and computer engineers
 will develop more sustainable sources of energy, like solar and wind power, and more
 efficient devices, like appliances and computers that will help maintain our world
 and extend our natural resources. They contribute to medical technology that helps
 keep us healthy or cure us when we are ill. Do you listen to music on your smartphone
 or tablet? An electrical and computer engineer designed the hardware and software
 that allow you to enjoy your tunes that way. Our programs provide graduates with a
 thorough understanding of the theoretical and philosophical principles of computer
 hardware and software, electronics, electric power and signal processing and communications,
 so they are prepared to apply their knowledge through design to a variety of applications.
 
More About Computer Engineering
Computer engineers design smartphones, computers, gaming consoles and the software
 that runs on them. They also put their mark on computer-based systems like those found
 in cars, planes, appliances, electronics, phones, communication networks and all kinds
 of other products.
 
Career Outlook
Our computer engineering graduates can be found in high-tech companies across the
 globe, like Intel, Compaq, Microsoft, Sun and Texas Instruments, and also in industries
 and agencies that build or use computer-based systems, like FedEx, NASA, and other
 telecommunications, automotive and aerospace companies.
 
More About Electrical Engineering
Electrical engineers design the electronics that run your smartphone, the networking
 hardware that powers the Internet, the power systems that light, heat and cool your
 home, and the algorithms that detect cancer in medical images.
 
Career Outlook
Graduates launch their careers in all kinds of fields, including aerospace, automotive,
 chemical, construction, defense, electronics, consumer goods, marine, materials and
 metals, power and energy, and pharmaceuticals and telecom industries.
 
By the Numbers




194


Herff is home to 194 students pursuing degrees in electrical and computer engineering.




2.7M


Received $2.7 million toward research in 2012–2013.




05


There are five dynamic research focus areas: Biomedical Imaging and SignalProcessing, Nanotechnology, Electric Power, Biomedical Electronics and Advanced Sensors.
 




 01


The program is affiliated with one state-of-the art research center—the Center for
 AdvancedSensors, which is uniquely positioned as a leader in researching and developing future
 militaryimaging systems. An online graduate certificate is also offered in Imaging and Signal
 Processing.
 




60


Herff's Electrical and Computer program supports 60 amazing graduate students.

















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/13/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































