https://workforum.memphis.edu/


WORKFORUM: University of Memphis Career Opportunities | Home












 
















Skip to Main Content













University of Memphis Career Opportunities










Toggle navigation








Home


Search Jobs


Create Account


Log In


Help




University Benefits


Equal Employment


Annual Security Report


Campus Map


About UofM








At the University of Memphis, we are driven by doing. A strong and diverse workforce is key to our institution's success. We are pleased that you are interested in joining our dynamic and enterprising team of faculty and staff members.



Staff Positions

Full-Time Faculty Positions

Part-Time Faculty Positions

Temporary Positions














All Positions













UofM Career Opportunities on Twitter















 Administrative Executive Positions













 Academic Executive Positions










Equal Employment & Institutional Equity
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Director for Institutional Equity, 156 Administration Building, (901) 678-2713. The University of Memphis policy on nondiscrimination can be found online.




Employee Benefits
In addition to competitive salaries and a collaborative work environment, we offer a robust benefits package that includes affordable health insurance plans, tuition assistance, University-sponsored retirement accounts, generous paid leave, and much more! More information for prospective employees is available online.






Links of Interest
The following links may be of assistance to those individuals interested in employment with the University of Memphis:
Human Resources
Student Employment
Mission/Vision/Values
Living in Memphis
UofM Career Opportunities on Twitter





Contact Us
The Human Resources Office is located on the main UofM Campus, in 165 Administration Building. Office hours are from 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Central Time Monday-Friday.

If you have questions or are unable to utilize this application process due to a disability, please contact the appropriate office:
- For assistance with staff, administrative executive, or athletic contract positions, contact Human Resources at hrservicecenter@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3573 for assistance.
- For assistance with full-time and part-time faculty or academic executive positions, contact Faculty Administrative Services at facultyservices@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3573 for assistance.

Please note: You must submit your application for each position for which you would like to be considered by the closing date given on the posting. All applications must be submitted electronically by 11:59 pm (Central Time) on the closing date indicated. 













University of Memphis — Human Resources
165 Administration Building, Memphis, TN 38152
901.678.3573 hrservicecenter@memphis.edu
Follow us on Twitter

©University of Memphis. All Rights Reserved.The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action university.











 To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at
.
 Any data not saved will be lost.
 Click 'OK' to keep your session active.
 




