https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/programs/avia.php



 



Commercial Aviation - 
 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	








Areas of Study
Online
Resources
Community Engagement
Connect









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Find the program that's right for you
Become a part of CPLS
Advising Appointments
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	

 	Areas of Study
 	Commercial Aviation

Bachelor of Science in Commercial Aviation
The College of Professional & Liberal Studies is proud to offer a Bachelor of Science
 in Commercial Aviation.
 
The B.S. in Commercial Aviation produces quality aviators through rich learning experiences
 guided by professionally engaged faculty. This program will prepare students for employment
 as airline pilots, or in a variety of aviation-related careers, such as corporate
 aviation, general aviation, aviation-related business, airport operations, and governmental
 regulation of aviation.
 
Students enrolled in Commercial Aviation will complete a 120 hour degree with a curriculum
 focused on management and business operations courses, and professional aviation instruction
 provided by Crew Training International (CTI) Professional Flight Training in Millington,
 TN.
 
Students enrolled in the program must obtain a valid First Class A FAA Aviation Medical Certificate conducted by an FAA medical examiner, no later than completion of their first flight.
 This certificate is valid for up to 5 years and requires an exam fee. Students will
 also be required to complete a background check.
 
Degree Requirements
Requirements for this program include general education, a coordinated study, thematic
 studies, and general electives. Students should seek guidance from their advisor every
 semester and follow the assigned degree plan. A minor may be pursued with this degree through the submission of a completed minor application. Approval must be granted from the graduation analyst of the minor they are seeking
 as well as the College of Professional and Liberal Studies graduation analyst. 
 
Thematic Studies
All College of Professional and Liberal Studies students must complete 6 credit hours
 of thematic studies courses. These courses are designed to broaden a student's knowledge
 of significant AVIA themes.
 
AVIA 4550 - Aviation Law & Regulation Credit Hours: (3)AVIA 4560 - Aviation Physiology & Survival Credit Hours: (3) 
 
Fees and Scholarships
Students are encouraged to regularly review fee charts, deadlines and other important details as they are subject to change. Please note
 that fees are non refundable.
 
The FedEx Purple Runway Aviation Scholarship is awarded to an undergraduate student
 in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies Commercial Aviation program. This
 is a non-renewable, $10,000 scholarship per student. Please note: the scholarship
 is open to students already holding a FAA Private Pilot's license, or greater. The
 scholarship committee will select the best-qualified candidates from a highly competitive
 pool of applicants. Please carefully read the requirements identified in the Tiger Scholarship Manager.
All fees associated with the aviation program are considered non-refundable. However,
 if you feel you have a justifiable circumstance for a refund, please complete our
 financial appeal form and provide appropriate documentation. Review of the appeal
 may take up to ten days.
 
Financial Appeal form for Commercial Aviation program fees
 


For more information on this exciting new program, please contact the College of Professional
 & Liberal Studies at 901.678.2716 or cpls@memphis.edu. 



WMC Action News 5 - Memphis, Tennessee













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/22/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































