https://www.memphis.edu/finance/programs/bba_re.php



 



Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) - 
 	FIR
 	 - The University of Memphis
 



























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate
 	








Welcome
Programs
Faculty & Staff
Research
Student Resources
FCBE









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog

Finance (B.B.A.)

Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.)

 MinorsBanking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance


 CertificatesFinancial Analyst & Planning


 ProgramsProfessional Real Estate


 TracksFinancial AnalystFinancial Planning


Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance

Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance

Program Rankings




Take Action



Cook Analytics & Trading Lab
Seminars
Contact Us
Return to FCBE




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	FIR
 	

 	Programs
 	Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.)

Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.)
Academic Advisors
Mark Alpuente (FIR Advisor)901.678.2855 | email
Trellis Morgan (Undergraduate Student Services Manager)901.678.2855 | email
Career Advisors
Dr. Mark Sunderman901.678.3632 | email
Dr. Pankaj Jain (Interim Department Chair)901.678.5930 | email
Career Opportunities
Real estate is a specialized area of finance. Many of the concepts learned in finance
 are applied in the field of real estate. A Real Estate Concentration is designed for
 students who desire careers that specialize in real estate and related industries.
 Since the real estate field is very broad, this concentration is designed to give
 the student flexibility in selecting courses that more fit their areas of interest
 yet still provide them the training needed to be successful in real estate.
 
Job Opportunities
Opportunities exist both in private industry and in government. As a career can be
 involved in:
 

Buying, selling or leasing property for residential, commercial or industrial uses.
Managing, financing or evaluating residential, commercial and industrial properties.
Developing subdivisions, shopping centers and other properties.
Valuation of residential or commercial real estate for government, industry or private
 use.
 
Working in real estate related industries such as title companies, mortgage banking,
 land use planning and architecture.
 

If you are interested in real estate sales or pursuing your Tennessee Affiliate Broker license, the Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) degree can help meet some of the
 requirements.
 
Scholarships and Internships
Many scholarship opportunities are available for qualified students majoring in real
 estate. Internships dealing with real estate are also available.
 
Lambda Alpha / Real Estate Fraternity
Lambda Alpha Real Estate Student Organization is sponsored by Lambda Alpha International
 (LAI), an honorary society for the advancement of land economics. LAI provides a forum
 for the study and advancement of land economics where the "winnowing and sifting"
 of ideas takes place in an atmosphere of mutual respect. The student organization
 is not limited to Real Estate majors or those in the Fogelman College of Business
 and Economics. We encourage those interested in the field of Real Estate to join us
 in several meetings each semester to hear speakers from the Real Estate profession
 and learn about career opportunities in Real Estate. Internship opportunities will
 also be explored.
 
Coursework

FIR 3410 – Financial Management (part of FCBE Business Core)

Core requirements in the Finance Department:
A minimum of 24 upper division semester hours in courses as follows:

FIR 3710 - Investments
FIR 3720 - Financial Markets

Real Estate Concentration (18 hours):

FIR 3310 – Real Estate Principles
FIR 4320 – Real Estate Finance
FIR 4350 – Real Estate Investment

Choose 3 courses from the following:

FIR 1220 – Personal Financial Management
FIR 4310 – Real Estate Law
FIR 4340 – Real Estate Appraisal
FIR 4440 – Intermediate Managerial Finance
FIR 4710 – Commercial Banking
FIR 4720 – Management of Financial Institutions
FIR 4911 – Internship in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate
ESCI 4515 – Geographic Info Science

For More Information
For additional information about this concentration, contact the Undergraduate Student Services Office at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics or the Program Advisor, Dr. Mark
 Sunderman. The Undergraduate Student Services Office is located in room 114 of the
 Fogelman College Administration Building ( 901.678.2855 | fcbeadvising@memphis.edu ).
 
Program Advisor
Dr. Mark SundermanProfessor and Morris Fogelman Real Estate Chair of ExcellenceDirector, Professional Real Estate ProgramFogelman College Administration Building, Rm 436901.678.5142 | email













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/29/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































