https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/programs/dsrs.php



 



Disability Studies & Rehabilitation Services - 
 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	








Areas of Study
Online
Resources
Community Engagement
Connect









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Find the program that's right for you
Become a part of CPLS
Advising Appointments
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	

 	Areas of Study
 	Disability Studies & Rehabilitation Services 

Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Service
A concentration on Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services provides students
 the resources and knowledge to be academically and professionally grounded in issues
 faced by individuals seeking disability services. Students will also be exposed to
 the theme of employment – including vocational adjustment and appropriate job placement
 – and independent living outcomes as reaffirmed in the Rehabilitation Act Amendments
 of 1992. Rehabilitation depends heavily upon communication between both the consumer
 and professional and among various professionals; consequently, communication will
 be stressed, as well as an understanding of the potential influence of cultural diversity
 and individual lifestyle choices. Courses will also enable students to understand
 the methods used in disability services to solve consumer problems and utilize available
 resources. Finally, a well-supervised field experience component will provide students
 the opportunity to integrate classroom principles and develop entry-level skills in
 a work setting.
 
Admission to the Program
Undergraduate students admitted to University of Memphis may pursue a degree in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies by completing
 Declaration of Major form. 
 
Once accepted, students must seek academic advising prior to the start of each semester. Advisors will provide guidance in developing
 a meaningful educational plan that is compatible with the student's abilities, values,
 interests and career goals. Academic advising is available in-person, by phone and
 web conference. 
 
Fees and Scholarships
Students are encouraged to visit University and Student Business Services regularly to review fee charts, deadlines and other important details as they are
 subject to change. 
 
The College of Professional and Liberal Studies offers several scholarships for students meeting the stated requirements. Students may apply for scholarships
 through Tiger Scholarship Manager.
 















Degree Requirements
Students in the Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services concentration will
 select from a set of courses in rehabilitation, business management, communication
 and human development. Requirements for this program include general education, a
 coordinated study, internship, thematic studies, senior project and general electives.
 Students should seek guidance from their advisor every semester and follow the assigned degree plan.  A minor may be pursued with this degree through the submission of a completed minor application. Approval must be granted from the graduation analyst of the minor they are seeking
 as well as the College of Professional and Liberal Studies graduation analyst. 
 
Thematic Studies
Thematic studies focus on significant themes in social, political, and religious history. All College
 of Professional and Liberal Studies students must complete 6 credit hours of thematic studies courses. These courses are offered on campus and online in many interdisciplinary topics.
 
Internships
All students pursuing the Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services concentration
 will be required to secure an internship as part of their degree requirements. Successful internships provide valuable learning
 experiences related to coursework and areas of study under the supervision of a faculty
 member and an employer in the community.
 
Prior Learning Assessment
Students who wish to accelerate the completion of their degree may be eligible to
 earn credit through Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) which includes credit earned by
 CLEP or DSST standardized exams, Experiential Learning Credit, or departmental credit by examination.















File for Graduation
Undergraduate students who are within two semesters of graduation should review the
 required process to file for graduation. All parts must be completed by the posted deadline. 
 
Career Development
Students interested in learning more about career options in Disability Studies and
 Rehabilitation Services should review information and set an appointment to meet with
 a Career Specialist in our Career Services Office.
 
Local and National Organizations
Disability and Rehabilitation Research Projects (DRRP) ProgramOffice of Disability, Aging and Long-Term Care Policy (DALTCP)













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































