https://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/clinabout.php



 



About Clinical - 
 	Department of Psychology
 	 - The University of Memphis
 



























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Psychology
 	








Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Centers
Research
DEI Initiatives
Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





 PhD in Clinical Psychology

About the Program

Welcoming Diversity

Clinical Faculty

Child Clinical

Clinical Health Psychology

Psychotherapy Research

Admission

Clinical Student Handbook

Clinical Program Announcements

Clinical Alumni News


 PhD in Experimental PsychologyAbout the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support


 PhD in School PsychologyAbout the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyHistorical StatementFinancial SupportProgram Philosophy and Training ModelProgram CompetenciesSchool Psychology Doctoral HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationChild & Family Studies Research Group


 MA/Ed.S. in School PsychologyAbout the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyM.A./Ed.S. Program GoalsHistorical StatementFinancial SupportSchool Psychology MA/ED.S. HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationWhat is a School Psychologist?Child & Family Studies Research Group


 Masters in General PsychologyAbout the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission


 Apply to Psychology Graduate ProgramsInstructions for ApplyingApply Now


 Graduate Student Coordinating CommitteeAbout GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding


Graduate Program Forms and Resources

Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data

School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data




Take Action



Psychology Advanced Degrees
Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC)
The Psychological Services Center
Teaching Take-Out





Facebook




Home

 	Department of Psychology
 	

 	Graduate
 	About Clinical

Clinical Psychology Program
Dr. Meghan McDevitt-Murphy, mmcdvttm@memphis.eduDirector of Clinical Training
 
NOTE: To apply to any of the Psychology Department Graduate Programs, familiarize yourself
 with the material at: Important Information for Applying to Psychology Graduate programs.
The doctoral program in clinical psychology has been APA* accredited continuously
 since 1972. The program was re-reviewed in 2016 by the Commission on Accreditation
 and awarded the maximum accreditation period of 7 years (until 2023). The program
 is guided by the scientist/practitioner model and places a particularly strong emphasis
 on research. Although diversity exists among the clinical faculty with respect to
 methods of inquiry and areas of study, there is unanimity in promoting scientific
 inquiry as the foundation of clinical psychology. Students with strong current research
 interests and corresponding career goals present the best fit with the clinical faculty
 and the educational opportunities available in our department. Our program also provides
 outstanding clinical training opportunities, including careful supervision by our
 faculty in our Psychological Services Center and a variety of paid clinical training opportunities in the Memphis Community.
The emphasis on scientific inquiry is indicated by the clinical program's membership
 in the Academy of Psychological Clinical Science, which is an alliance of leading
 scientifically oriented doctoral training programs and internships in clinical and
 health psychology in the United States and Canada. Academy membership is open to doctoral
 programs with strong commitments to, and established records of, successful clinical
 science training.
 
Our program has the following training goals and objectives:

Students will become competent in general knowledge of psychology as a science and
 the breadth of the field's foundations.

Students will demonstrate competency in the history of psychology, its development
 as a field, and its relations with other scientific disciplines.
 
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental areas of psychology.
Students will demonstrate an understanding of the science-based nature of clinical
 psychology

Students will demonstrate a thorough understanding and appreciation of scientific
 methodology and the ability to apply this methodology to issues in clinical psychology.

Students will be knowledgeable concerning basic research methodology and statistics.
Students will be able to apply their research and statistical skills to evaluate the
 efficacy of various clinical treatments.
 
Students will demonstrate an understanding of how clinical measurement instruments
 should be developed and validated.
 
Students will produce competent scientific products. Students will value their role
 as scientist-practitioners.Students will develop an understanding of theories and
 methods of effective psychological consultation.

Students will be competent at diagnosis and case conceptualization.

Students will be knowledgeable regarding the presentation and range of normal and
 abnormal behavior.
 
Students will be knowledgeable of the purposes, models, and procedures for clinical
 interviewing and cognitive assessment.
 
Students will be able to integrate findings from interview and assessment to generate
 a case conceptualization and initial plan for treatment, if applicable.
 
Students will integrate into case conceptualization issues such as social forces,
 ethnic background, and physical health, among other issues.

Students will demonstrate competent skills as therapists, with intervention procedures
 driven by empirical findings and a theoretical foundation.

Students will demonstrate the "common factors" that underlie effective therapeutic
 relationships.
 
Students will demonstrate an awareness of a variety of psychotherapeutic interventions
 and evidence-based practices.Students will be able to design an intervention program
 with an appreciation for sequencing skill development for the client, choosing intervention
 strategies appropriate for the client, and developing appropriate therapeutic goals.
 
Students will be able to implement treatment programs, adjusting the intervention
 in order to address diversity issues.
 
Students will demonstrate an understanding of theories and methods of clinical supervision.

Students will integrate ethical guidelines into their approach to research and practice
 and show an understanding of the intersection of psychology and law.

Students will display ethical attitudes and values.
Students will develop ethical self-awareness.



Our program offers three broad areas of research focus within clinical psychology:
 Child and Family Studies, Clinical Health Psychology, and Psychotherapy Research.
 As you explore the websites of our faculty members, you will see how their research
 and clinical interests tend to fit in these areas. Each of our students identifies
 a research area and completes the specific coursework and requirements of that area.
 Alternatively, with faculty approval, students may create a more personalized research
 area that blends two or more research areas or integrates another emphasis (e.g.,
 quantitative methods, public health). Please see our website to learn more about our
 research areas.
 
To be accepted into the clinical program, students must apply for full-time studies
 for the entire duration of graduate studies (approximately 5-6 years). All competitive
 applicants will have outstanding undergraduate academic records, including the completion
 or core coursework in psychology and psychology research experiences. About a third
 of our admitted students apply during their senior year of undergraduate studies,
 but many applicants will have also completed 1-2 years of post-baccalaureate research
 experience (e.g., working as a research assistant), and others may have already earned
 a master's degree in psychology.
 
Consistent with our strong scientific emphasis, students are usually supported with
 a research assistantship during their first year of graduate training. In addition,
 students complete a second research assistantship in their area of interest during
 their second or third year in residence. Our mentorship model allows students to receive
 hands-on guidance from basic research training through their mastery of highly complex
 scientific skills.
 
Clinical training also begins in the first year, when students typically begin their
 core classes in clinical psychology. This first year is highly structured with required
 clinical and general psychology courses; subsequently, the content of study is more
 flexible and determined by each student's research area and interests.
 
After completing their first year, students see patients during years 2 through 4
 in our training clinic, the Psychological Services Center (PSC), under the close supervision
 of clinical faculty. The orientation of all faculty members is empirical, emphasizing
 the relations between research evidence and practical clinical applications.
 
Students also complete at least one year of clinical assistantship. This might include
 working in a clinical setting in the community, on campus in the PSC, or conducting
 assessment and/or therapy in a clinical research lab. Memphis provides a range of
 outstanding training sites, including a multidisciplinary diagnostic center for developmental
 disabilities, an adult residential setting for individuals with developmental disabilities,
 an inpatient psychiatric hospital, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, a private psychological
 practice, a federal prison, and the world famous St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.
 In addition, our students often engage in short-term training on a volunteer basis
 at the Memphis VA Medical Center and a number of other community agencies.
 
Assistantship support is provided for a minimum of four years, at a rate of $17,000
 for students without master's degrees and $18,000 for students with their master's.
 Tuition is waived for students in good standing on assistantship support. Students
 also receive generous travel awards to attend professional conferences each year.
 Academic and financial counseling for clinical students is available within the department
 and is also offered through the Center for Student Development on campus. Students
 can often receive reduced-fee personal counseling from community professionals.
 
Once a student is accepted into the Clinical Program, every effort is made to provide
 an environment conducive to his or her successful completion of the program. We try
 to prevent attrition as much as possible through early detection of problems, either
 academic or personal, and through providing early counseling and constructive feedback.
 
Students typically receive their doctorate after 6 years of study, including their
 year of internship training. In other words, our students who enter with a masters
 degree (and empirical thesis) usually complete their pre-internship training in 4
 years, and students who enter with a bachelors typically complete their pre-internship
 training in 5 years. Consistent with the scientist-practitioner training model, all
 of our students are actively involved in research, irrespective of their ultimate
 career goals. Our students average 3-4 conference presentations per year and approximately
 5 publications by graduation. Although the specific clinical experiences vary by individual,
 our students gain strong skills in evidence-based practice and typically accrue over
 800 clinical hours prior to internship. Thus, our students are highly competitive
 for internship programs. Over the past four years, our match rate for APA Accredited
 internships is 100%, compared to a nationwide rate of under 80%. All 34 of our intern
 applicants during this period have matched during Phase 1 of the APPIC Match to paid
 APA-Accredited Internships. Below please find a comprehensive list of internships
 our students have attended over the past 10 years.
 
Internship Sites




Name


Location





Alpert Medical School of Brown University
Providence, RI


Bay Pines VA Healthcare System
Bay Pines, FL


Baylor College of Medicine
Houston, TX


Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System
Little Rock, AR


Charles George (Asheville) VA
Asheville, NC


Charleston Consortium Internship
Charleston, SC


Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Dallas, TX


Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center-Salem
Salem, VA


Duke University School of Medicine
Durham, NC


Emory University/Grady Health System
Atlanta, GA


Federal Correctional Complex - Butner
Butner, NC


Federal Medical Center – Carswell
Fort Worth, TX


Franciscan's Children's Hospital and Rehabilitation Center
Boston, MA


Indiana University School of Medicine Psychology Internship Consortium
Indianapolis, IN


James H. Quillen Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Mountain Home, TN


James A. Haley Veterans Hospital
Tampa, FL


Kennedy Krieger/Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, MD


Lewisville Independent School District
Flower Mound, TX


Long Island Jewish Medical Center
Glen Oaks, NY


LSU Health Sciences Center
New Orleans, LA


Lucille Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford and the Children's Health Council Consortium
 
Palo Alto, CA


Medical College of Georgia
Augusta, GA


Memphis Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Memphis, TN


Metropolitan State Hospital
Norwalk, CA


Nebraska Internship Consortium in Professional Psychology
Omaha, NE


North Suburban Special Education District
Highland Park, IL


Northeastern Oklahoma Psychology Internship
Vinita, OK


Portland VA Medical Center
Portland, OR


Southwest Consortium Psychology Internship
Albuquerque, NM


Tewsbury Hospital
Tewsbury, MA


The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
Philadelphia, PA


The University of Texas Health Science Center
San Antonio, TX


University of Alabama at Birmingham
Birmingham, AL


University of California-San Diego/Veterans Affairs Internship Consortium
San Diego, California


University of Chicago
Chicago, IL


University of Florida Health Science Center
Gainesville, FL


University of Illinois-Chicago
Chicago, IL


University of Mississippi Medical Center
Jackson, MS


University of North Carolina School of Medicine
Chapel Hill, NC


University of Oklahoma Health Science Center
Oklahoma City, OK


University of Tennessee – Knoxville
Knoxville, TN


University of Tennessee Health Science Center Professional Psychology Internship Consortium
 
Memphis, TN


University of Washington School of Medicine
Seattle, WA


University of Wisconsin Center for Health Sciences
Madison, WI


US Medical Center for Federal Prisoners - Springfield
Springfield, MO


Veterans Medical Center – Durham
Durham, NC


Veterans Affairs Medical Center-Lexington
Lexington, KY


Veterans Affairs Western New York Healthcare System
Buffalo, NY


Vanderbilt University/Veterans Affairs Internship Consortium
Nashville, TN


Veterans Affairs Medical Center – DC
Washington, DC


Veterans Affairs Medical Center – Denver
Denver, CO


Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System
Palo Alto, CA


Wichita Collaborative Psychology
Wichita, KS


Wilford Hall Medical Center, Lackland Air Force Base
San Antonio, TX


Wright-Patterson US Air Force Medical Center
Wright-Patterson, OH


Yale University
New Haven, CT



In addition, our graduates are well-poised for competitive post-doctoral fellowships
 and jobs, with most engaging in a combination of research, clinical work, teaching,
 and administrative duties. Recent data indicate that the most common work environments
 for our alums are universities and academic medical centers, other medical settings
 such as VA hospitals, and a variety of clinical settings (e.g., private practice,
 correctional facilities, private general hospitals, university counseling clinics,
 and military medical centers). The majority of our graduates obtain professional licensure.
 Please see licensure requirements by state as it relates to our training program for more information. Our students have been highly competitive in winning awards
 including NIH loan repayment grants and other federal research funding, and assuming
 clinical and administrative leadership positions.
*Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological AssociationOffice of Program Consultation and Accreditation750 First Street, NEWashington, DC 20002-4242Phone: 202.336.5979TDD/TTY: 202.336.6123













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/9/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































