https://www.memphis.edu/ce/



 



Department of Civil Engineering - 
 	Civil Engineering
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Civil Engineering
 	








Students
Research
People
News
Accreditation
Programs









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 Build your career starting with the Herff College
 
 


 
 Choose from our undergraduate, graduate or doctoral programs
 
 





 
 IFTI, CIRBE, CAESER
 
 


 
 Learn more about our research centers
 
 





 
 Improving our world
 
 


 
 Students conduct research alongside industry experts 
 
 





 
 Choose from six concentrations
 
 


 
 structural, environmental, construction, geotechnical, water resources and transportation
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Support Civil Engineering
Forms
Herff College of Engineering
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutube

Nationally Ranked

#
 							
 
 
 134
 
 

 
 U.S. News and World Report
 
 
 
 
 Civil Engineering - Graduate
 
 

View All Rankings



Home
 	Civil Engineering
 	

Welcome to Civil Engineering
Civil Engineers Shape our World
Civil Engineers contribute to society and economy in numerous areas: Infrastructure,
 Bridges, Buildings, Transportation System, Environment, Autonoums Vehicles, Earthquake
 Design, Data Science, and many others.  That's why civil engineers spend their days
 analyzing the stuff most of us take for granted—like how to reduce pollution, strengthen
 bridges or improve roadways. They literally shape the world we live in.
 
 
 
Why Choose Civil Engineering (CE) at the University of Memphis?
 

 
The Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Memphis is well known for
 its top-notch academic program, cutting-edge and community-based research, and welcoming
 environment. In the UofM CE program, students have it all – a comprehensive learning
 experience in a large urban university and a small, close-knit community in the Herff
 College of Civil Engineering and the CE major. Our highly respected faculty engage
 students not just in their courses, but also in their research – even at the undergraduate
 level! Through the CE program, students develop valuable skills that improve life
 in our communities by:
 

Environmental Engineering;
Earthquake Engineering - designing bridges and building to withstand earthquakes;
Protecting our drinking water supply;
Ensuring safe routes to school;
Facilitating the safe and efficient transport of goods throughout the country;
Reducing pollution in our streams and rivers;
Designing sustainable roads and bridges and buildings for the future.

Learn more about our program from our students and graduates and why you should consider
 joining our Tiger family!
For a visit of the Department, please contact Dr. Shahram Pezeshk, Chair (spezeshk@memphis.edu).
2021 Recipient of Dr. Fred H. Kellogg Award

Cooper Morris was recently awarded the Dr. Fred H. Kellogg Award by the Department
 of Civil Engineering! While at Herff, Cooper was the President of the American Society
 of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Student Chapter and the Captain of the American Institute
 of Steel Construction (AISC) Steel Bridge Team. Currently, Cooper is working for a
 civil engineering firm where he is progressing toward his Professional Engineering
 License. In the future, he plans to further his education by working towards a master’s
 degree.
 
From Cooper Morris:
My favorite memory was when our American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) chapter
 was able to go to conference. It was great for all our members to travel to another
 university to compete and represent Herff. The amount of teamwork we exhibited in
 preparing for and participating in the conference was awesome to take part in and
 watch.
 
I would like to thank Dr. David Arellano for all he has done in assisting me in getting
 to where I am today. From the first days of freshman year where I was introduced to
 begin a research project, to providing guidance allowing for me to present at the
 National Conference on Undergraduate research.
 
At Herff, there are so many opportunities for everyone from student organizations
 to research. It is truly wonderful the wide variety of possibilities available, and
 it allows for every student to achieve the most success during their time in the college.
 
2021 Recipient of Dr. T.S. Wu Award

Abdurahman Abdulhadi was recently awarded the Dr. T. S. Wu Award by the Department
 of Civil Engineering! While at Herff, Abdurahman was the Vice President of the American
 Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Student Chapter and the Captain of the Earthquake
 Engineering Research Institute (EERI) Seismic Design Team. Currently, Abdurahman is
 conducting research for his master’s degree and partly working for a civil engineering
 firm where he is progressing toward his Professional Engineering License.
 
From Abdurahman Abdulhadi:
My favorite memory while at Herff was being able to go to Vancouver, Canada, for the
 Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI) Seismic Design Competition (SDC).
 I learned a lot from this competition that I would not have learned otherwise. I am
 so proud that we won third place in the competition among 38 top universities across
 the world! We also were able to explore the city of Vancouver by hiking in the mountains
 to beautiful waterfalls and trying several local restaurants. I will never forget
 that it started snowing after we enjoyed a picnic at the bottom of a waterfall.
 
I want to thank all the civil engineering professors because every single one that
 I have worked with has taught me something invaluable. Professors have been a key
 to my success and have provided me with numerous opportunities such as research and
 Internships with civil engineering firms.
 
 
2021 Recipient of Thomas S. Fry Award

Logan Nelson Sirbaugh was the recipient of the 2021 Thomas S. Fry Award
From Logan Sirbaugh:
My favorite memory was volunteering with the elementary, middle, and high school students
 during Engineering Day. It is exciting to see the interest and dedication that the
 students are placing into Engineering paths. This allowed me to become more involved
 in the STEM Hub and K-12 programs.
 
I would like to thank Dr. Stephanie Ivey for all of her effort into helping me succeed.
 Dr. Ivey has given me the opportunity to work on various research projects in a variety
 of subject areas. This has allowed me to gain priceless professional contacts and
 opportunities that I would have never known existed. She has helped me to narrow down
 my career path and encouraged me to pursue my Master's degree. I would also like to
 thank all of the professors in the Civil Engineering department as they have been
 extremely helpful along the way. Each professor provides a different approach and
 outlook to education and career paths. The Herff College of Engineering has provided me with numerous ways to become involved.
 I would suggest that all students become involved in student organizations. By becoming
 a member of the student organizations, it allows you to gain connections with students,
 faculty, and professionals.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/22/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































