https://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/jd-mba.php



 



JD/MBA - 
 	School of Law 
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law
 	








About
Law Admissions
Programs
Current Students
Faculty
Careers
Library









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 Degree Programs

Degree Programs Home

JD

JD/MBA

JD/MA in Pol. Science

JD/MPH

MPH Fast-Track

Part-time Program


 Certificate ProgramsCertificate Programs HomeAdvocacyBusiness LawHealth LawTax Law


 Experiential LearningExperiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program


 Law ReviewLaw Review HomeEditorial BoardEditor-in-ChiefJoining Law ReviewVirtual Tour of Law Review SuiteSymposiumSubscriptionsArchivesCurrent VolumeConnect with Us


 Advocacy ProgramMoot Court BoardJoining Moot Court BoardIn-School CompetitionsTravel Team CompetitionsPast Champions


Inst. for Health Law & Policy

Legal Methods Program




Take Action



Event Calendars 
Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures)
Alumni & Support
Contact Memphis Law




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	School of Law 
 	

 	Programs
 	JD/MBA

JD/MBA PROGRAM
The School of Law and the College of Business and Economics offer a coordinated degree
 program leading to the conferral of the JD and MBA. The purpose of this joint degree
 program is to allow the student to study the intricacies of modern law and management
 as a coordinated educational effort. Students who are contemplating a career as a
 lawyer specializing in business issues and want to acquire the skills and perspective
 of the business manager will find the JD/MBA especially helpful. An additional benefit
 of the joint program is that it offers the student the ability to complete both the
 JD and MBA in considerably less time than required to complete each degree separately.
 
AdmissionAn applicant must submit separate applications and be independently accepted to both
 the JD and MBA programs. A student is encouraged to apply to both programs at the
 same time. A law student must begin the MBA program before beginning the third year
 of law school course work. An MBA student must begin law school before completing
 one half of the course work in the MBA program. This program is designed for students
 who wish to complete both degrees simultaneously.  Current law students seeking admission
 MBA portion of the program must take the GMAT or the GRE to be admitted.  The LSAT
 will not substitute.
 
CurriculumStudents are expected to work toward both degrees concurrently. As part of the cooperative
 nature of the JD/MBA program, the College of Business and Economics and the School
 of Law have agreed to accept course work from each college toward their specific degrees.
 
BenefitsThe School of Law will award credit toward the JD degree for nine hours of approved
 Core Curriculum course work with a grade of B or better from the MBA program. Grades
 in these MBA courses transfer to the School of Law on a Pass/No Grade basis. Grades
 in MBA courses are not used to determine academic standing or class rank in the School
 of Law. These nine credit hours count for a portion of the thirty-five JD elective
 hours.
 
The College of Business and Economics will award credit toward the MBA degree for
 nine credit hours from approved courses offered by the School of Law. The student
 must earn a C+ or better on the law classes used for the MBA. The law classes will
 not be used towards computing the MBA grade point average; however, no more than two
 C's may count towards the MBA portion of the joint degree program. These nine credit
 hours count for the three elective hours and six required hours of the MBA degree.
 The decision on which six required hours are substituted is at the discretion of the
 director of the MBA program.
 
MBA Classes Substituted for JD ClassesFor JD/MBA students, the law school will accept up to 9 credits from the following
 list of courses offered by the MBA program:
 

ACCT 7080: Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers. (3)
ECON 7100: Economics for the Global Executive. (3)
MIS 7650: Information Systems in the Global Enterprise. (3)
FIR 7155: Global Financial Management. (3)
SCMS 7313: Global Operations Management. (3)
SCMS 7110 - Intro to Business Analytics. (3)
MKTG 7140: Global Strategic Marketing. (3)
MGMT 7160: Global Strategic Management. (3)

These courses will replace electives hours otherwise required in the Law School curriculum.
 Only classes taken live (i.e. not online) will be awarded transfer credit.
 
JD Classes Substituted for MBA Classes
For JD/MBA students, the director of the MBA program will have the discretion to approve
 course substitutions of up to 9 credits from the following list of courses offered
 by the law school:
 

Administrative Law (311)
Antitrust (318)
Arbitration/Labor (315)
Banking Law (385)
Bankruptcy Reorganization Seminar (442)
Business Organizations I (211)
Business Organizations II (319)
Commercial Law (700)
Commercial Paper (323)
Comparative Law Seminar (441)
Corporate Finance (384)
Corporate Tax (334)
Debtor-Creditor Relations (327)
Employment & Labor Law Seminar (443)
Environmental Law (328)
Environmental Law Seminar (438)
Health Care Insurance & Regulation Seminar (434)
Health Law (336)
Health Law Organization, Regulation, and Finance (302)
Immigration Law (337)
Insurance Law (339)
International Business Transactions (399)
International Economic Law (397)
International Finance (338)
International Law (340)
Labor Law (343)
Labor Relations (343)
Land Use Planning (344)
Mergers & Acquisitions (301)
Non-Profit Organizations (370)
Partnership Tax (352)
Problems in Bankruptcy (354)
Realty Transactions (358)
Sales (359)
Securities Regulations (361)
Sports Law (372)
Transnational Legal Problems (365)
Unfair Trade Practices (366)

To facilitate customization, students are encouraged to consult with the director
 of the MBA program to add to this list in order to complement their desired course
 plan.
 
Program Sequence
Students in the coordinated JD/MBA program may schedule their course work in the joint
 program to suit their educational objectives, subject to the restrictions listed below:
 

A student may take only law courses while completing the first year law curriculum.
A law student must begin the MBA program before beginning the third year of law school
 course work.
 
An MBA student must begin law school before completing one half of the course work
 in the MBA program.
 

Important Note About Cost
The University of Memphis charges a student in a joint degree program the higher tuition
 for all credits earned in either degree. Since law school tuition is higher than graduate
 business school tuition, students in the joint degree are charged law school tuition
 rates for course credit in both law school and business school even when a student
 only takes business school courses in a semester.
 
Contact Information
Before Entrance to JD:
Sue Ann McClellan, Ed.D.Assistant Dean for Law Admissions, Recruiting and ScholarshipsUniversity of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of LawPhone:  (901) 678-5403smcclell@memphis.edu
Before Entrance to MBA:
Emily SmithMBA Academic AdvisorUniversity of Memphis Fogelman College of Business and EconomicsPhone: (901) 678-3656emelonas@memphis.edu













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/4/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































