https://www.memphis.edu/notice/index.php



 



The University of Memphis Notice - 
 	UofM Notice
 	 - The University of Memphis
 






























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			UofM Notice
 	








eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact




















Notice





Privacy

Information Gathering

Use of Information

Security

Third Party Sites

Copyright

Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action

Related Policies



Virtual Tour

Memphis
Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus.




Home
 	UofM Notice
 	

UofM Notice
 Privacy Notice
 
The University of Memphis is committed to respecting the privacy of its Web site visitors.
 To better protect your privacy we provide this notice explaining our online information
 policies and practices. This notice is made available through a link on our homepage
 and in the University's universal footer.
 
It is not necessary to reveal any personal information to visit official UofM Web
 sites. Should you choose to provide us with any personal information it will only
 be used by The University of Memphis to conduct official University business. We will
 never disseminate personal information to any unaffiliated third party.
 
 Cookies
 
Cookies are small files that are stored locally on your machine. Each of these files
 contain some combination of alpha-numeric numbers and do not contain personal information.
 Most, if not all, University of Memphis websites use cookies and can only be accessed
 remotely by the UofM. The University of Memphis uses the following types of cookies:
 First- and Third-Party Cookies.
 
Editing your browser's settings will allow you to block cookies. These instructions
 can usually be found under your browser's settings in the 'Help' section of your browser.
 
First-Party
We use these cookies to enhance your website experience. These cookies help our website
 recognize you and your access privileges across the UofM Web sites. First-party cookies
 also aid with site navigation. Many of our websites would not run properly without
 these cookies.
 
Third-Party/Tracking Cookies
The UofM works collaboratively with other organizations (third parties) in order to
 enhance your experience and provide additional service to you, the end-user. These
 cookies help the UofM with advertising, analytics, and tracking services. Listed below
 are a few third-party services currently being used by the UofM:
 

Google Analytics
YouVisit
AdRoll

Whether they are First- or Third-Party, they both share some characteristics, with
 the most important similarity being that they 'remember' your visit. First- and Third-Party
 cookies can be further categorized into two other types: Session or Persistent. Session
 cookies expire as soon as you close the browser, while Persistent cookies remain on
 your computer until they are manually removed or expire. Typically speaking, session
 cookies remember your preferences when going from page to page on a website during
 one visit; while Persistent cookies remember your preferences for websites that you
 visit frequently.
 
 Use of Information
 
The University of Memphis uses the information collected on websites in several ways:

Statistical Web Usage Reports
Server & Website Diagnostics
Marketing Analysis
User Identification
User Access Privilege Identification
Advertising
Website Enhancement

All information that is gathered is used strictly for official University business
 only.
 
 Sharing your Information
The University of Memphis will never disseminate your personal information to any
 unaffiliated third-party.
 
 Security
 
The University or Memphis has established appropriate network, server and managerial
 procedures to safeguard and help prevent unauthorized access and to assist in maintaining
 data security. Official web servers use encrypted connections when collecting or displaying
 sensitive information. Users should verify that a secure connection (https) is being
 used when submitting sensitive information via login and data collection forms.
 
 Third Party Links
 
Some pages on the University of Memphis' website may link to external sites outside
 of the memphis.edu domain for your convenience. Note that using these links will cause
 you to leave the UofM website. The University of Memphis is not responsible for the
 content or privacy practices of websites not affiliated with the memphis.edu domain.
 As such, the University does not make any representations about them. When visiting
 an external website, it is recommended that you view their Privacy Policy to become
 more familiar with their privacy practices and content handling.
 
 Copyright
 
Unless otherwise noted, all contents of The University of Memphis Web site are copyright
 The University of Memphis. All rights reserved.
 
 Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
 
The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University.
The University of Memphis is an AA/EEO employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin,
 sex, disability, veteran status, religion or age in its programs and activities. The
 following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination
 policies:
 
EE/AA Compliance OfficerOffice for Institutional Equity156 Administration BuildingThe University of MemphisMemphis, TN 38152-3370affirmact@memphis.edu
Tel: 901. 678.2713Fax: 901.678.4800
 
Disclaimer
Information found on The University of Memphis website is provided by multiple sources.
 Every effort is made to keep the content updated; however, the website may not always
 reflect the most recent actions on academic coursework or University policies, and
 is subject to change. The University reserves the right to revise the information
 on this website at any time and without notice. Any links to external websites and/or
 non-University of Memphis information provided on University pages or returned from
 University web search engines are provided as a courtesy. Linking to those websites
 does not represent an official endorsement of the information contained there.
 
Contact Information
If you have any questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact us.
 Related Policies
 
TBR 1-08-00-00: Use of Technology Resources GE2004 - Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action GE2006 - Copyrighted Materials, Use of IT6003 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources AA3022 - Privacy of Education Records (Compliance with FERPA) GE2019 - University Websites













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 2/12/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































