https://www.memphis.edu/bme/



 



Biomedical Engineering - 
 	Biomedical Engineering
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Biomedical Engineering
 	








Home
About
Future Students
Current Students
Research
Contact Us
Accreditation









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 3 plus 2 program
 
 


 
 Earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in five years
 
 





 
 A unique opportunity
 
 


 
 Our program is the only BME program within 200 miles of Memphis. 
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Biomedical Engineering Degrees
Herff College of Engineering
Contact Us





Nationally Ranked

#
 							
 
 
 98
 
 

 
 U.S. News and World Report
 
 
 
 
 Biomedical Engineering - Graduate 
 
 

View All Rankings



Home
 	Biomedical Engineering
 	

Changing lives, one scientific advancement at a time.
Biomedical engineers use technology and biological sciences to solve health problems
 and advance healthcare. They do things like design joint replacement implants, develop
 life-saving tools, and discover new ways to deliver drugs to fight disease.
 
Start solving health problems in Herff's biomed lab. Grow your own cells on a template
 to see how you might heal different parts of the body. Right now, we're developing
 a device that guides the treatment of septic shock better than ever before. Sound
 unbelievable? It's not. Every day, Herff students bring new ideas to the table and
 push the field of biomedical research further.
 
Biomedical engineers collaborate with scientists, other engineers, and practicing
 physicians on projects such as orthopedic implants, artificial organs, cardiovascular
 prostheses, and improved medical imaging techniques. We offer the only undergraduate
 biomedical engineering degree within 200 miles of Memphis. Our graduate program is
 a collaboration of the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, the University
 of Memphis and their partnering entities.
 

2021 BME Outstanding Senior

Pictured:  Nancy Pont Briant and Dr. Joel Bumgardner
Congratulations, Nancy Pont Briant, on being named Outstanding Senior in the Department
 of Biomedical Engineering!
 
While at Herff, Nancy was a top student and involved with the Biomedical Engineering
 Society (BMES), the UofM Student Chapter of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE),
 Tau Beta Pi engineering honor society and Alpha Eta Mu Beta (AEMB) biomedical engineering
 honor society. Hear from Nancy below about why she chose to major in biomedical engineering
 here at Herff, what were her toughest challenges as a biomedical engineering student,
 what she was most proud of from her time here in the department, how BME prepared
 her for her future goals and if she could go back in time, what would she tell herself
 as a first year student?
 



"I chose to major in BME because I got involved in engineering back in middle school
 with the Technology Student Association (TSA) club. Once I got to high school, I took
 classes about the physiology of the body and then a clinical internship to shadow
 various medical professionals. I saw BME as a perfect way to mesh both my love for
 science and the medical field with my affinity for mathematics. I specifically chose
 to come to the University of Memphis for biomedical engineering because when I was
 visiting other universities, professors never stopped and talked to the tour group.
 When I was on my tour of Herff, several professors stoped and talked to us about the
 research taking place in their labs and they were very generous with their time. I
 found this to be very unique.
 
My toughest challenge in BME at UofM was taking an upper divisional BME class my sophomore
 year. I moved up taking Medical Physiology by a year because I had the room in my
 schedule. In hindsight, I should have taken this class during the designated semester
 because I was taking too many classes during that particular semester. Following the
 BME track would have made my sophomore year a little less stressful.
 
I am most proud of my senior design project where my group successfully helped a three-year-old
 patient with spina bifida sit independently. Throughout this project, there were various
 problems relating to the design and construction of the device because our meetings
 were practically all virtual because we were all socially distancing ourselves and
 doing classes remotely due to COVID-19, but my group overcame all of these challenges.
 Being able to see the impact biomedical engineers have on peoples' lives was amazing.
 
BME has prepared me for my future goals by giving me a great foundation to build and
 learn upon. During my. BME coursework, I was taught how to problem solve, research,
 persevere and work together with my teammates. I believe this was invaluable. 
 
I would tell my freshman year self to start applying for internships early even though
 I might not have been as qualified as other candidates, it would give me practice
 at interviewing and networking. Also, it is completely possible for a company to decide
 to hire a freshman/sophomore as an intern. While pursuing internships, also try to
 get involved in undergraduate research. Undergraduate research added so much to my
 undergraduate experience that I would not trade it for anything. Finally, I would
 also tell my freshman year self to get involved in the clubs in the engineering department
 that interest me, they are a great way to meet other classmates and older classmates
 as well!"
 
Nancy Pont Briant
















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 8/31/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































