https://www.memphis.edu/theatre/dancescience.php



 



Dance Science - 
 	Theatre & Dance
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Theatre & Dance
 	







About
Academic Programs
Admissions
People
Production Archives
Purchase Tickets
Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



2021-2022 Season
Prospective Students
Watch Me – Theatre Video
UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation




Follow Us On Social Media
InstagramFacebook




Home

 	Theatre & Dance
 	Dance Science




Dance Science at the U of M

The University of Memphis is offering a new and exciting degree!
A BFA Theatre with a Concentration in Dance Science.


Why study dance science? Through Dance Science, you will be able to combine your love
 of dance with a foundation of science. This trains a better performer; one more educated
 about bodies as instruments. The Dance Science degree produces dancers who know not
 just how to dance but how to dance in a safe way.
 
The Dance Science curriculum includes courses drawn from the B. S. in Health Studies,
 concentration in Exercise, Sport and Movement Sciences and the B.F.A. in Theatre,
 concentration in Dance. The scientific study includes anatomical kinesiology, biomechanics,
 exercise physiology, nutrition, and psychology. The dance study includes training
 in dance techniques, improvisation, composition, somatics, and performance.
 
Dance Scientists are professionals who are employed by dance companies and dance training
 facilities to devise effective exercise programs, as well as advise dancers regarding
 best training practices, injury prevention and care. Dance Scientists are better-informed
 dancers, choreographers and teachers. With additional undergraduate and graduate study,
 they also become researchers, dance therapists, and physical therapists.
 
Alumni Spotlight
Countess WinfreyDancer, Dayton Contemporary Dance Company(As a student at UofM from 2007-2011, a Dance Science degree did not exist. Countess
 created her own dance science path by majoring in Health Studies with a concentration
 in dance.)"As a result of what I was learning, I was becoming a smarter dancer in the classroom
 and on the stage. I started feeling so much more aware of my body, and the proper
 ways to use my body, both inside and out of the studio.
 
For my Senior Project I did a research study on how to increase flexibility in dancing
 bodies. I learned about the importance of dynamic stretching and static stretching,
 and when they were most beneficial for the body to healthily increase flexibility
 
If a Dance Science degree was available when I was a student I would have chosen it.
 I am delighted it is now possible: this degree provides an opportunity for dancers
 to learn about dancing from a physical and scientific scope so dancers can go out
 into the dance world in whatever field they choose with technical, practical, and
 scientific knowledge of the dancing body."
 
Rachael Arnwine B.F.A 2017 currently pursuing an M.A. in Exercise, Sport and Movement Science"Dance Science is incredibly relevant as it leads to understanding one's own body,
 injury and injury prevention. I apply this understanding to myself as a dancer and
 to the students I teach. With this Dance Science degree, the University of Memphis
 is on the forefront of the new and fast-growing field of dance science and research
 within the field."
 

 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 6/3/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































