https://www.memphis.edu/nursing/program-admit/msn/msnprograms.php



 



MSN Programs - 
 	Loewenberg College of Nursing
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Loewenberg College of Nursing
 	








About Us
Programs & Admissions
Student Life
Faculty & Staff
Research & Initiatives
News & Events
Giving & Support









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs & Admissions





 BSNProgramAdmissions


 Accelerated BSNProgramAdmissions


 RN to BSNProgramAdmissionsRequest Info


 MSN

Program

Admissions


 Post MSNProgramAdmissions


 PhDProgramAdmissions


Pre-Admit

Lambuth

FAQs

Applied: What's Next?




Take Action



Schedule a tour
Apply now
Give now
Contact Us




Find us on Social Media
InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedn




Home

 	Loewenberg College of Nursing
 	

 	Programs and Admissions
 	MSN Programs

Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
The Loewenberg College of Nursing MSN Program offers two options for students. A traditional
 MSN program offered online and an Executive MSN program, including on-site intensives
 and national conferences. A Post-MSN certificate program is available for MSN graduates
 in the specialty of Primary Care (FNP), and Nursing Education.
 
Program Highlights















#17 Nationally OnlineGrad Nursing Program*U.S. News & World Report

100% EmploymentRate in 2016
75% Graduation Rate



Choose the track that's right for you



Education
A 31-credit hour program that prepares the student as a nurse educator to teach in
 schools of nursing programs and in various health care system settings. Students will
 learn about nursing and education theories, learning strategies, curricular development,
 and develop skills in different teaching methodologies. View Curriculum >


Executive Leadership
A 37-credit hour program with curriculum aligning to the American Organization for
 Nursing Leadership and the ANCC Magnet Recognition Program® components. EMSN offers
 online coursework, on-campus intensives and trips to national conferences. The program
 prepares nurses for management and executive positions in a variety of settings. Fees
 cover all course resources, books, and expenses for on-campus intensives two times
 a year and two conferences. View Curriculum >


Family Nurse Practitioner
A 46-hour program that prepares advanced practice nurses who deliver primary health
 care to all ages; individuals and families throughout the lifespan and across the
 health continuum. Students will be provided with knowledge and clinical skills necessary
 for health promotion, disease prevention, assessment, and management of common acute
 and chronic illnesses. View Curriculum >



For detailed information about the MSN program, including policies, course names and
 descriptions, visit the Graduate Catalog. 
Degree Requirements

Students enrolled in the MSN program must complete 31-46 semester hours (based on
 concentration area)
 
Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA (“B”). Grades of “D” and “F” will not apply
 toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours
 of “C-“, “C,” or “C+” will be applied towards meeting degree requirements.
 
Students must earn a grade of “B” or better in all clinical and lab courses (NURS
 7102; NURS 7602; NURS 7604; NURS 7606; NURS 7609; NURS 7207; NURS 7209; NURS 7909)
 in order to graduate.
 
Academic disqualification from the graduate nursing major will occur when the student:
 
 
fails to maintain a 3.0 GPA in graduate school.
fails to earn a grade of “B” (3.0) or better when repeating a course.
willfully misrepresents patient data or clinical practice.
willfully places any patient in physical or emotional jeopardy.
is placed on probation by the Tennessee Board of Nursing.
fails to disclose a felony conviction.
fails to disclose disciplinary action or diversion by the Tennessee Board of Nursing.
fails to complete all degree requirements within five years of entering graduate nursing
 coursework.
 


All requirements for the MSN degree must be completed in 5 calendar years.

Residency Requirements
Applicants to online and hybrid nursing programs must be residents of a state in which
 the Loewenberg College of Nursing is authorized to provide distance education. The
 Loewenberg College of Nursing is NOT authorized to offer distance education in California.
 Students who reside outside of Tennessee and plan to enroll in an online program of
 study that leads to advanced nursing licensure are individually responsible for verifying
 that the program meets the requirements for advanced licensure in their state. Online
 nursing students should contact the state licensing body from which they will be seeking
 licensure to ensure eligibility requirements.
 
Students who relocate to California, in which LCON is not authorized to offer distance
 education, will be required to fulfill their remaining course requirements in Tennessee
 or another authorized state, or to withdraw from the program.
 

National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (http://nc-sara.org). 
 

 
Tuition and Fees
For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services.
 
Contact Us




Leila SchroederGraduate Academic Services Coordinatormsn@memphis.edu901.678.5255
 


Dr. Jeremy N. WhittakerAssistant Dean of Nursing StudentsJ.Whittaker@memphis.edu  
 




Dr. Brad HarrellDirector MSN Educationbharrell@memphis.edu


Tracy CollinsDirector MSN-FNPtmason@memphis.edu 




Dr. Teresa RichardsonDirector MSN-Executive Leadershiptrchrds1@memphis.edu 

 



 
Admissions Info >













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/1/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































