https://www.uofmfoundation.org/




























































































Home | University Of Memphis Foundation























 Skip to Main ContentWAYS TO GIVE >University of Memphis FoundationAbout the FoundationFoundation StaffFoundation Board of DirectorsFAQsFormsContactMoreUse tab to navigate through the menu items.Supporting the Vision of the
University of MemphisThe University of Memphis is an internationally recognized, urban public research university preparing students for success in a diverse, innovative, global environment.Why We're Great >




















By receiving this scholarship, I can continue my education at the UofM and not worry about how I will pay for my tuition and books. I appreciate your generosity, and I will not let you down.











By receiving this scholarship, I can continue my education at the UofM and not worry about how I will pay for my tuition and books. I appreciate your generosity, and I will not let you down.Why We're Great >












Before law school, I served in the U.S. Army as a Field Artillery Officer. By receiving this significant contribution to my legal education, I hope and believe that I can contribute to the proud legacy of military veterans practicing law in the Memphis area. View the University's Strategic Plan >Why We're Great >












I am a mom of two toddlers and a full-time law student. I want to thank the donors from the bottom of my heart. As a minority woman who came to America for a better future, I am honored to receive this scholarship. > How Your Donations Impact Students >>> Support the University by making a contribution >The University of Memphis Foundation is a not-for-profit, tax-exempt corporation chartered in 1964 in the State of Tennessee. The Foundation was formed exclusively to benefit the University of Memphis and accepts, manages and disburses private support to the University. 
 
Fundraising activities are conducted by the University Advancement Office. Regardless of size, the University of Memphis Foundation manages each gift wisely and ethically under the guidance of financial leaders appointed to help us earn your trust.
 
Contributions to the Foundation come from individuals, corporations, foundations, organizations, estates and trusts through current as well as deferred gifts. These gifts and related earnings provide financial support to deserving scholars and support a wide spectrum of University needs. University Advancement OfficeMeet the Foundation Staff >Foundation Board of Directors >Annual Audit Report >Foundation Forms > (For University Use)Public Information Policy:
The Foundation is incorporated as a nonprofit and is a tax-exempt organization under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code.  The relationship between the Foundation and the University is set out under a written agreement that expressly recognizes the Foundation as a separate and distinct legal entity and not an agent of the University. The Foundation respects the rights of donors to keep their gifts and personal information private.
​
​The Foundation has provided voluntary disclosure of information on this website. Any requests for information not already disclosed on this website must be submitted in writing to the Foundation. The "Contact Us" link below may also be used.
   CURRENT COVID-19 PROCESS FOR THE FOUNDATION 
If you have an issue requiring Foundation assistance, please send a message to the Foundation email address below (with any necessary attachments) and someone will contact you.
 
FOUNDATION EMAIL
foundation@memphis.edu
 
DONATIONS
If you need to make a donation, please go to this link for instructions.
https://www.memphis.edu/development/waystogive/index.phpContact UsSendSuccess! Message received.University of Memphis Foundation    
 
635 Normal Street   |   Memphis, TN 38152  Phone (901) 678-3956 or (901) 678-2790

For making donations (901) 678-3953
 ©2019 by University of Memphis Foundation 












