https://www.memphis.edu/cepr/counseling/edd.php



 



Counseling EdD - 
 	Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research
 	








Counseling
Counseling Psychology
Educational Psychology & Research
Faculty and Staff
Research
Clinical Services
Grants & Contracts
Alumni & Friends









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Counseling





Faculty and Research

 Degree Programs

Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate)

College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)

Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)

Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)

School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate)

Addiction Counseling (MS)

Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS)

Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)

Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS)

School Counseling (MS)

Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)

Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD)


Mission Statement

 Current StudentsPracticum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation





Take Action



Apply Now!
Student Organizations in CEPR
Department News
Contact Us








Home

 	Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research
 	

 	Counseling
 	Counseling EdD

Counselor Education and Supervision Ph.D.
Program Coordinators
Melanie Burgess, Ph.D.
Ball Hall 303A
901-678-2841
M.Burgess@memphis.edu 
 



Chi Li, Ph.D., NCC



Ball Hall 304A901-678-3424Chi.Li@memphis.edu





The Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision is designed to prepare Counselor
 Educators, researchers, and supervisors. Entry into the program requires a master's
 degree in Counseling. If you want to be a Counselor Educator, our Counselor Education
 and Supervision Ph.D. program puts you on the fast track for a faculty position.
 
If you seek a faculty position in a CACREP-accredited Counseling program, the UofM's
 Ph.D. program provides exceptional training for academic careers. Our Ph.D. program
 features world-class facilities and nationally renowned researchers. Graduates of
 our Ph.D. program have earned tenure-track faculty appointments at major universities
 across the country.
 
Our Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision excels at shaping faculty
 careers because:
 

We have a national reputation. Our Counseling Division is the largest in Tennessee in terms of student enrollment.
 We also offer more master's level concentrations than any program in the state. Our
 student body is the most diverse in Tennessee. You will benefit from our size and
 variety. A degree from our program makes a strong impression in faculty search committees.
 
We do cutting-edge research. Our faculty are engaged in multiple funded studies. Our faculty have a variety of
 foundation, state, and federal grants. You will have access to the UofM's research
 infrastructure, and the department's in-house clinic. Our faculty are leading groundbreaking
 research in many areas including adverse childhood experiences, addiction, risk-taking
 behaviors, and healthcare access.
 
We excel in both qualitative and quantitative methods. Few Counselor Education and Supervision Ph.D. programs can match our training in
 research methodology and statistics. Our statistics and research courses are taught
 by faculty in the department's Educational Psychology and Research program which is
 currently ranked 5th in the nation. You will benefit from the rigor and diverse course
 offerings of this nationally ranked program. No matter what type of research you want
 to focus on, we have the facilities and faculty to support you.
 
We will train you to teach. Our program has coursework to train you in teaching, pedagogy, and classroom management.
 You will have the opportunity to teach courses on your own with close supervision
 and mentoring from our most seasoned faculty. This experience will help you develop
 practical skills necessary to lead college-level classrooms effectively. Strong teaching
 ability will round out your candidacy for faculty appointments, and it helps to explain
 our graduates' excellent track record in landing tenure-track jobs.
 
We support our students. Our doctoral students receive funding via teaching and research assistantships.
 Our TAs and RAs receive tuition remission and a monthly stipend. While you are employed
 as a TA or RA, you will learn life as a faculty member by engaging in the very activities
 you will do as a professor.
 

Program Goals and Objectives
The Counselor Education and Supervision program prepares college faculty, scholars,
 and leaders in the counseling profession. Students will gain: (1) ability to collect,
 analyze, and interpret individual and group data, and to generate and test hypotheses
 related to human behavior; (2) advanced comprehension of concepts and theories underlying
 the profession of counseling; (3) the ability to formulate, implement, and evaluate
 appropriate counseling programs and interventions; and (4) the ability to understand
 and demonstrate ethical behavior and the legal and ethical implications of that behavior.
 
Faculty Research
Faculty in the Counseling Division engage in a variety of cutting edge and societally
 relevant research and our doctoral students will be expected to join in their work.
 Faculty in the division run multiple research labs covering numerous topics including
 models of counseling supervision, access to healthcare, adverse childhood experiences,
 and forensic counseling, among others. Students work with faculty and publish and
 present their findings as co-authors. The department has a robust history of sending
 our doctoral students to professional conferences around the world. Learn more about
 our research here.
 
Admission Requirements
Entering students must possess a master's degree in counseling (concentration open)
 from a CACREP- or CORE-accredited program. Students with a master's degree in counseling
 that does not contain all key elements of a CACREP-accredited degree may be considered
 for admission, but will be required to complete additional coursework.
 
The program enrolls 5 to 6 students each year. Applications are accepted for the Fall
 semester only, and applications for the 2021-2022 class are due March 1st. Applicants
 are expected to enter with a master's degree and typically spend 3 to 4 years in full-time
 residence to complete the program. Preference is given to applicants seeking full-time
 enrollment, but those seeking enrollment as part-time students are also considered.
 For more information about the programs policies and procedures, consult the Counselor Education and Supervision Student Handbook, or see the university's official Graduate Bulletin.
 
Application Procedures
As noted, the application deadline is March 1st. Applicants must apply through the university's online system here. All applicants must submit:
 

Transcripts of all colleges attended at both the undergraduate and graduate levels
GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, Analytical Writing)
Three letters of reference
A curriculum vitae
A personal statement 

The personal statement should be a concise but a complete report of applicant's counseling
 training and experiences, research background and interests, and an outline of future
 career goals. There is no page limit. Qualified applicants will be invited to campus
 for an interview. Applicants will be asked to identify at least two potential faculty
 members to serve as their major professor.
 
Clinical Training
The Counselor Education and Supervision Ph.D. program and the other clinical programs
 in CEPR participate in the university-wide Interprofessional Community Health Clinic (ICHC). Located in the Community Health Building, the ICHC is CEPR's in-house training clinic.
 Students in our Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling,
 and Rehabilitation Counseling master's programs, as well as doctoral students in our
 Counselor Education and Supervision and Counseling Psychology programs use the ICHC
 as one of their clinical placement sites. Students in these programs complete practica
 and internship experiences in the ICHC. Services include:
 

Individual counseling
Couples counseling
Family Therapy
Group counseling
Psychological and psychoeducational evaluations
Vocational counseling

Student Financial Support
The department provides qualified full-time students with teaching (TA) and/or research
 (RA) assistantships. Assistantships are provided on a competitive basis at the departmental
 level. Additional RAs and TAs are available across campus as well. For additional
 information, please contact the concentration coordinator.
 
Accreditation
The doctoral program in Counselor Education and Supervision is accredited by the Council
 for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). You
 can access our 2018 CACREP Vital Statistics Report and see our 2019 re-accreditation notification letter by following the links. 
 
Important Documents for Current Students
Here is a link to forms and other documents for current tudents













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/22/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































