https://www.memphis.edu/lead/programs/hiad.php



 



Higher and Adult Education - 
 	Department of Leadership
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Leadership
 	








About
Programs
Faculty\Staff
Students
Center for Higher Ed
News
Contact









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Leadership Programs





EdD in Higher and Adult Ed

EdD in Leadership and Policy Studies

MS in Educational Leadership and Policy Studies

MS in Student Affairs Administration

Graduate Certificates




Take Action



Apply Now 
Need Help? Contact Us! 




Follow Us Online
FacebookYoutube




Home

 	Department of Leadership
 	

 	programs
 	Higher and Adult Education


Higher and Adult Education
Program Overview
The Higher and Adult Education program at the University of Memphis includes Master
 of Science programs in Leadership and Policy Studies with concentrations in Leadership
 and in Student Personnel and Higher Education and Adult Education Doctorate programs
 that offer concentrations in Adult Education or Higher Education. Our EdD program
 can be completed fully online with no on-campus requirement. The MS concentration
 in Student Personnel is a hybrid program offering some required courses on-ground
 as well as online courses. All our programs are taught by student-centered faculty
 who bring a wide variety of experience and expertise to their classrooms.
 
The Higher and Adult Education (HIAD) Doctoral Program is comprised of two areas of
 concentration: Higher Education and Adult Education. The Higher Education Concentration
 is designed for individuals seeking graduate-level preparation primarily for mid-
 and senior-level administrative positions in higher education institutions, or higher
 education-related agencies, boards, and commissions. The Adult Education Concentration
 is designed for individuals seeking leadership positions in education, health services,
 business, and in community and non-profit organizations. The Adult Education Concentration
 prepares professionals to teach and facilitate the development of adult learners and
 promote lifelong learning.  Dr Eric Platt is the Higher and Adult Education Program Coordinator 
 
One of the most exciting facets of the HIAD Program is its suitability for candidates
 from diverse professional and educational backgrounds. Students currently enrolled
 in the program have academic and professional backgrounds in the fields of Business,
 Education, Health, Law, Counseling, and Liberal Studies. Our graduates are currently
 serving as:
 

Community College Presidents
Higher Education Vice Presidents
Deans, Associate Deans, and Assistant Deans
Department Chairpersons
Faculty Members
Researchers
Student Affairs Administrators
Educational Program Directors
Health Services Administrators
Community Organization and Non-profit Directors
Human Resources Administrators

Degree Offerings
Doctor of Education in Higher Education and Adult EducationMaster of Science (MS) in Student Personnel (Student Affairs Administration)
Doctor of Education in Higher Education and Adult Education
The Higher and Adult Education EdD program is comprised of two areas of concentration:
 Higher Education and Adult Education.
 
The Higher Education Concentration is designed for individuals seeking graduate-level
 preparation primarily for mid-level and senior-level administrative positions in higher
 education institutions, or higher education-related agencies, boards, and commissions.
 
The Adult Education Concentration is designed for individuals seeking leadership positions
 in education, health services, business, and in community and non-profit organizations.
 The Adult Education Concentration prepares professionals to teach and facilitate the
 development of adult learners and promote lifelong learning.
 
To apply for either EdD program, complete the UofM Graduate School Admissions Application
 then submit the following items to hiad@memphis.edu:
 

Letter of application
Resume
Statement of Goals (2-3 pages) (Describe your work relevant to your concentration,
 describe your research interests, leadership roles, experience and commitment to diversity,
 how this degree will help you achieve your career goals and how do your goals align
 with our program)
 
Transcripts from previous institutions,
GRE scores within past 5 years, (to be competitive scores should be around 146 V/Q
 and 3.5 writing)
 
Three letters of recommendation - preferably two from your former or current instructors.

  If you would like to apply for Higher Education, our deadline is April 1st, and your classes will start in the Fall of that year. For application or program-related inquiries, please contact us by phone at 901-678-2369
 or by email at hiad@memphis.edu. We strive to respond to your request within 24 hours,
 or the next business day. Admissions requirements are set forth by the Office of Graduate
 Admissions and the Graduate Bulletin.
 
Master of Science in Leadership & Policy Studies – Student Personnel Concentration
 (Student Affairs Administration)
The concentration in Student Personnel prepares individuals for roles in Student Affairs
 and Student Services in higher education. This concentration is 36 credit hours, including
 an internship requirement that provides real work experience in an area of Student
 Affairs or college student services. Many students in this concentration obtain Graduate
 Assistantships within the UofM Division of Student Affairs, or in a student retention
 center.Graduates of our Student Personnel program have gone on to work in University Residence
 Life, Greek Affairs, Student Leadership, academic advising, and career counseling.
 Current students in our program have the option to participate in the Student Personnel
 Association, which provides professional development and social activities for both
 graduate and undergraduate students interested in a career in student affairs.
Student Personnel Association
This campus recognized student organization is open to graduate and undergraduate
 students interested in careers in student affairs and college student services. Students
 in the Student Personnel Association (SPA) can gain leadership skills, network with
 student affairs professionals and develop job search skills and strategies. SPA strives
 to provide social and professional development opportunities throughout the academic
 year.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































