https://www.memphis.edu/biology/graduate/



 



Graduate Resources for Department of Biological Sciences - 
 	Biological Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Biological Sciences
 	








Undergraduate
Graduate
Centers
People
Research
Blog
Scholarships









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate Resources





Graduate Research Labs

Center for Biodiversity Research (CBio)

MS Degree Program

PhD Degree Program

Graduate Faculty

Graduate Students

Alumni

Bill A. Simco Scholarship

Milestone Evaluation

Handbook




Take Action



DEI Resources
Seminar Schedule
Research and Program Facilities
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	Biological Sciences
 	

 	Graduate Information
 	

About the Graduate Program in Biological Sciences
Omar Skalli, Ph.D.Coordinator of Graduate StudiesE-mail: oskalli@memphis.edu
Welcome to the webpage of the Graduate Program in Biological Sciences. We are excited
 that you are considering our program to further your education by acquiring a graduate
 degree.
The Department of Biological Sciences offers programs leading to the Master of Science
 (either MS thesis or non-thesis MS) and the Doctor of Philosophy degrees. Graduate
 faculty members in the department of Biological Sciences have diverse interests covering most of the major fields of biology and taxonomy of organisms.
Applicants must apply to the Graduate School application webpage. In order to be considered for admission in the Department of Biological Sciences
 Graduate Program, applicants must have identified a prospective mentor by contacting
 faculties whose research interests match theirs.
 
All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School
 for MS and PhD programs. International applicants should satisfy the specific requirements of the Graduate School. Visit the MS DEGREE PROGRAM or PHD DEGREE PROGRAM links to
 the left of this web page for specific information about these graduate programs offered
 by the Department of Biological Sciences.
 
 
Department of Biological Sciences Graduate Application Deadlines
Applications for the Fall Semester
Applicants applying for the Fall semester and wishing to be considered for a Graduate
 Teaching Assistantship (GTA) must apply no later than February 1. GTA are awarded on a competitive basis and the number of GTAs awarded depends on
 the number of GTA positions available at the time. Therefore, applications received
 by February 1 may be either denied, or accepted without GTA, or accepted with GTA.
 Decisions about acceptance into the Department of Biological Sciences Graduate Program
 in the Fall Semester will be made by the end of February.
 
Applications received after February 1 will be reviewed toward the end of the Spring
 semester. These applications will be considered for GTA award only if unfilled GTA
 positions remain at that time.
 
Applications for the Spring Semester
Applicants applying for the Spring Semester and wishing to be considered for a Graduate
 Teaching Assistantship (GTA) must apply no later than September 15. GTA are awarded on a competitive basis and the number of GTAs awarded depends on
 the number of GTA positions available at the time. Therefore, applications received
 by September 15 may be either denied, or accepted without GTA, or accepted with GTA.
 Decisions about acceptance into the Department of Biological Sciences Graduate Program
 in the Spring semester will be made early in October.
 
Applications received after September 15 will be reviewed toward the end of the Fall
 semester. These applications will be considered for GTA award only if unfilled GTA
 positions remain at that time.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 8/28/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































