https://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/masters/mha.php



 



MHA-Masters of Health Administration - 
 	School of Public Health
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Public Health
 	








About
Programs
Apply
People
Students
Research
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 UndergraduateBSPHPublic Health Minor


 Masters

MHA

EMHA

MPH

MS Biostatistics

Dual Programs


 DoctoralPhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences


 Graduate CertificatePopulation HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership


Interpreter Course




Take Action



Apply Now
Explore Programs
Alumni & Support
FAQ




Follow SPH Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	School of Public Health
 	

 	Programs
 	MHA-Masters of Health Administration

Master of Health Administration (MHA)

The University of Memphis Master of Health Administration (MHA) program is a nationally-ranked
 program with an award-winning emphasis on leadership and professional development.
 The University of Memphis MHA has been preparing healthcare leaders for over 25 years
 and is Tennessee's only CAHME-accredited program. Small class sizes and a 6:1 student-to-faculty
 ratio assure an environment of personalized professional development that equips our
 students with the competencies and skills needed to thrive as healthcare leaders. 
The 53-credit hour on-campus track can be completed full-time in two academic years
 (21 months) or part-time in as few as three years. Evening classes accommodate both
 full- and part-time students. Most of our full-time students work in paid part-time
 administrative residencies with healthcare organizations across the Memphis area.
 The cornerstone of our award-winning approach to leadership development is our Day
 One program. This program includes a team development retreat prior to entering the
 program and a series of seminars that address core professional competencies such
 as interviewing, resume design, networking, dining etiquette, dressing for success,
 and presentation skills. Our students receive a significant number of nationally-competitive
 post-graduate fellowships. For the past three years, the UofM MHA program has a 100%
 90-day job placement rate. We offer an exceptional educational experience with among
 the most affordable tuition rates and lowest costs of living in the country.
 

Learn. Lead. Care.
The mission of the University of Memphis MHA Program is to provide a high-quality
 educational experience that will, through both on-campus and executive tracks, prepare
 students for success in a variety of healthcare institutions. View Mission, Vision, and Values >
Program Highlights















#33 Nationally-Ranked*U.S. News & World Report


6:1 Student-to-FacultyRatio


Graduation Rate:
2015:93%, 2016: 100%, 2017: 100%, 2018: 100%
Job Placement Rate (90-day post-graduation):
 
2015: 93%, 2016: 100%, 2017: 100%, 2018: 90%
 



Competencies
The University of Memphis MHA provides a comprehensive, competency-based education
 to prepare future leaders in Health Administration. Our 19 competencies are focused on preparing future leaders in the domains of Leadership, Communication,
 Critical Thinking, Science/Analysis, and Management.
 
Curriculum
The University of Memphis MHA Program's 53-credit hour curriculum is designed to give
 students well-rounded knowledge of health care subjects including finance, human resources,
 quality, economics, planning, and leadership. Our award-winning leadership and professional
 development seminar, Day One, reflects the program's commitment to make sure that
 our graduates are immediately reading to step into the profession immediately following
 graduation. View Curriculum >
For detailed information about the MHA program, including policies, course names and
 descriptions, visit the Graduate Catalog. 
Degree Requirements

Students enrolled in the MHA program must complete a total of 53 credit hours. This
 includes:
 
 
47 hours of core courses
6 hours of electives


Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA (“B”). Grades of “D” and “F” will not apply
 toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours
 of “C-“, “C,” or “C+” will be applied towards meeting degree requirements.
 
The full-time program requires 21 months. The part-time program can be completed in
 as few as three years (33 months).
 
 
All requirements for the MHA degree must be completed in 5 calendar years.



Tuition and Fees
For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student
 Business Services' Fee Chart.
 
Contact Us
For frequently asked questions about the MHA program, please visit our MHA FAQ.
 




Shirl Sharpe, MSAcademic Services Coordinator IIssharpe@memphis.edu901.678.1710
 


M. Paige Powell, PhD, MHAMHA Program Directormppowell@memphis.edu




Christie RakestrawGraduate School Admissions Counselorcrakstrw@memphis.edu901.678.4489
 

 



Admissions Info >
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/19/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































