https://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/index.php



 



Financial Aid - 
 	Financial Aid
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Financial Aid
 	







Undergraduate
Graduate
Law
Scholarships
Student Employment









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 Looking for a job to work with your busy schedule?
 
 


 
 Apply for student employment on campus
 
 





 
 FAFSA Applications are open
 
 


 
 See step-by-step guide below
 
 





 
 Don't let finances stand in your way of your dreams
 
 


 
 Explore the financial aid resources that are available to you
 
 





 
 Feeling lost when it comes to Financial Aid?
 
 


 
 Our Financial Aid Guide will show you the way
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Financial Aid Forms
Financial Aid Checklist
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us








Home
 	Financial Aid
 	







Financial Aid




You can find instructions on how to complete the most frequently used tasks involving
 your financial aid on our Step-by-Step page.
 
If you still require assistance, please submit an TigerHelp Request by clicking the Contact Us link below. If you have already emailed or submitted a
 TigerHelp Request, please do not submit another request as we will respond as soon as we are able. 
 
Contact Us (TigerHelp Request)
 




 
A college education is an investment in your future, and the first step to making
 your dreams happen is to understand how to finance your education. We know the cost
 of a college education and available financial assistance are crucial considerations
 when selecting a college. We are here to make sure you have the answers you need.
 

Complete the FAFSA
The Student Financial Aid Office administers federal, state and institutional aid
 programs to qualified students. In order to apply for any federal aid for college,
 you must first fill out and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This application is used by the federal government, state aid agencies, and institutions
 to determine your eligibility for many types of aid including grants, loans and even
 scholarships. You need to file a FAFSA each year you wish to receive aid.
 
- 003509 is the school code for the University of Memphis -
Check Out Our Me + Memphis Financial Aid Guide
This resource is full of all the answers you need to understand the different ways
 to fund your college education.
 





FAFSA Year
Semesters Covered
Priority Deadline
TSAA Priority Deadline



2022-2022 FAFSA

Fall 2022, Spring 2023, Summer 2023
March 1, 2022
February 1, 2022



2021-2022 FAFSA

Fall 2021, Spring 2022, Summer 2022
March 1, 2021
February 1, 2021




Apply for an FSA ID (required to complete the FAFSA)
Watch a quick tutorial on how to apply for an FSA ID
Complete the FAFSA
View IRS Data Retrieval Tool Status
Without the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, students can still complete the FAFSA. However, students selected for verification will be required to request a Tax Return
 Transcript from the IRS at Get Transcript tool.
 
Submit Documents - Students must also submit any other required documents in order to complete the
 financial aid application prior to being awarded. Requirements are posted on myMemphis. Visit our Step-by-Step page for detailed instructions on how to check on your status and determine if you
 have missing requirements.
 


Important News and Financial Aid Updates
COVID-19 (coronavirus)
For updated information regarding how COVID-19 may impact your financial aid, please
 visit our COVID-19 Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions. 
 
For updated information regarding COVID-19 and University operations, please visit
 memphis.edu/coronavirusupdates. 
 
Financial Wellness
Register for our Financial Wellness Course. It's designed to enhance student financial knowledge and highlight financial behaviors.
 
Student Employment
For information, visit the Student Employment page.
 
Course Program of Study (CPOS)
Course Program of Study (CPOS) consists of the courses used to complete an approved
 and declared degree program (including declared minors). To be counted toward a student's
 Federal Financial Aid eligibility, a course must count toward the completion of the
 declared program of study. The University of Memphis implemented CPOS beginning with
 the Spring 2019 semester and all future terms. Additional information is available
 on our Course Program of Study FAQ page.
 

How to Accept/Decline Your Award Offer(s)

Log on to your myMemphis account
 
Click on the Student Pages tab and then click My Finances
Scroll down, then click on the Financial Aid Awards link
 
NOTE: If you do not have this link/"channel", call the ITS Service Desk at 901-678-8888.
 
Select the appropriate aid year (Aid Year 2020-2021), then Submit
Read the information under the General Information tab (note that the Accept Award Offer tab is not yet activated)
 
Click on the Terms and Conditions tab, then scroll down to 'Accept' (the Terms and Conditions)
 
Click on the Accept Award Offer tab, then scroll down
 
Click on the drop down box next to your award OFFER and select an option.

Sign up online NOW for eRefunds to receive excess financial aid and fee refunds.
 

Consumer Information
Access a summary of consumer information >




Contact Us:
Financial Aid Office
Phone: 901.678.4825


 
103 Wilder Tower
Fax: 901.678.3590


 
Memphis, TN 38152-3520
Online: Contact Us



Office hours are: Monday - Friday 8:00am - 4:30pm













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/15/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































