https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/undergraduate/esms.php



 



Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate





 DieteticsAboutAdmissionsMissionCurriculumResourcesFAQ


Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences

Health Sciences

Healthcare Leadership

Physical Education Teacher Education

Sport Coaching

Medical Assisting (Minor)

Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor)

Accelerated BS to MS

Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses




Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences

Bachelor's Degree in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences
 


The undergraduate program in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences (ESMS):

provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of exercise science, with coursework
 in areas such as kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior and exercise
 programming.
 
introduces you to the theoretical concepts and practical skills associated with preventive
 health, exercise and disease management, physical fitness, exercise program design
 and sports conditioning.
 
provides an overview of mechanical aspects of human movement as well as physiological
 systems including anatomical, musculoskeletal, neural, cardiovascular, metabolic and
 respiratory; inclusive of both lecture and laboratory experiences.
 
includes a one-semester (240 hour) internship (final semester of senior year), in
 which you can select your area of focus to gain 'real world' work experience in your
 chosen field. An option to complete the internship within one of the many Human Performance
 Laboratories is available with permission/acceptance of the lab director. » Application
when substantially more ‘real world’ work experience/exposure is desired prior to
 graduate school training, one of the two-semester Cooperative Education options might
 be considered for either 1) pre-athletic training, 2) pre-occupational therapy, 3)
 pre-physical therapy or 4) pre-strength & conditioning. 
 

 An accelerated BS/MS program in ESMS is offered through the College of Health Sciences.
 
Major
Health Studies

Concentration: Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences
Degree: Bachelor of Science (BS)
BS degree sheet (subject to change)
 
Courses offered by semester 

Careers
Students are well prepared to work in a variety of settings or to attend graduate
 school within the following areas*:
 

Physical therapy
Occupational therapy
Medicine (medical doctor, physician assistant)
Exercise science and associated disciplines (master's or PhD level)
Bioenergetics
Biomechanics
Exercise physiology
Nutrition science
Strength and conditioning

*Students should seek the guidance of the academic services coordinator, the pre-health
 professional advisor, faculty mentors and/or the school/college of interest with regards
 to needed prerequisite courses for Graduate School admission.
 
Students are also well prepared to begin employment within the following areas:

Health/Medical research (master's degree typically required)
Clinical Exercise Physiologist (master's degree typically required)
Corporate wellness
Health club facility management
Personal training
Group fitness instruction
Fitness and wellness coaching
Strength and conditioning coaching

 
 Download the ESMS brochure


ESMS Cooperative Education Program
Our Cooperative Education Program is an ideal option for students aspiring to enter
 graduate school in:
 

physical therapy
occupational therapy
athletic training
strength & conditioning

The program is designed to provide you with early extensive exposure/experience in
 one of these clinical/professional fields to assist you in determining if the field
 is a good personal choice. This program also provides you with extensive networking
 opportunities and assists you in understanding the relevance of coursework you are
 taking in the ESMS program of study.
 
If you have completed all 1000- and 2000-level prerequisites for the ESMS concentration
 with a cumulative GPA of no less than 3.0, you may participate in this program that
 involves school/work rotations. Students are paid an hourly wage by the work site,
 so availability of sites may be limited. You are responsible for securing your own
 work sites. Cooperative education participation is an option, not a requirement.
 

For more info:Lawrence Weiss | lweiss@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

We are endorsed by the National Strength and Conditioning Association's (NSCA) Education Recognition Program
 (ERP). The NSCA ERP recognizes and distinguishes schools with standardized, approved strength
 and conditioning or personal training curricula in undergraduate and graduate settings
 designed to prepare students for the NSCA-Certified Personal Trainer® (NSCA-CPT®)
 and NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist® (CSCS®) certifications.
 


Student Testimonials
"The University of Memphis was my last stop on my educational odyssey. It took me
 12 years to finally finish my undergraduate studies. Although I would've liked to
 graduate in a normal time frame, I feel that being an older student allowed me to
 truly understand the caliber of instructors that we had in the Exercise, Sport & Movement
 Science program. Through their guidance, instruction, and drive to make me better,
 I was able to graduate and start a CrossFit gym a few months after. They instilled
 the confidence within me to know I was making the right choice. It's the best choice
 I've ever made educationally." - Milos Mikic, BS
"I completed both my bachelor’s and master’s within the College of Health Sciences.
 The six years I spent within the College were some of the most transformative years
 I have experienced thus far. From receiving a world-class education taught by renowned
 faculty in their respective disciplines, to working alongside faculty and gaining
 knowledge in conducting interdisciplinary research, the dedication of the College
 to educating future leaders in health sciences shaped my career and the person I am
 today. Because of the experiences I had during my time within the College, I continued
 my education, completed a doctoral degree, and pursued a career in academics to help
 develop the next round of health science professionals. I am forever grateful for
 my time spent within the College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis.
 It has become a place that feels less like a university, and more like home, whenever
 I come back." - Shelby A. Peel, PhD 
 
"My time spent within the College of Health Sciences exceeded my expectations. I was
 surrounded by some of the most respected scientists within the exercise/sport science
 field, which allowed for great mentoring that helped me though my doctorate and now
 as a faculty member. I learned a tremendous amount about research, and was able to
 collaborate on many different projects that enriched my education while being at the
 University of Memphis. I know my time spent within the College of Health Sciences
 will only help me to excel as an educator and researcher." - Tyler M. Farney, PhD, CSCS, USAW
"Throughout my graduate studies within the College of Health Sciences, I was provided
 an education that is second to none. The skills acquired through this program allowed
 me to reach my academic goals in addition to providing me with the necessary tools
 to succeed as an educator and in the field of research. I had the opportunity to work
 in multiple labs alongside of some of the most respected scientists in their fields
 which allowed for a diverse educational experience.  The education provided by the
 College of Health Sciences fully prepared me to face the rigors of Ph.D. studies and
 beyond. Without question, much of the success I have earned as well as my potential
 for future success can be credited to the education acquired from the College of Health
 Sciences and their exceptional professors." - Damien C. Moore, MS
"I have gained much valuable research experience in the College of Health Sciences
 under the guidance of many distinguished mentors. The knowledge I have gained allowed
 me to be a step ahead of my peers in medical school and there is no doubt that I will
 be a better physician someday as a result of my experiences." - Moe Kabir, MD
"Performing undergraduate research in the College of Health Sciences was a great learning
 experience. The faculty and staff are helpful, knowledgeable, and inspiring. Being
 able to publish scientific papers and perform clinical science research gave me a
 competitive edge when applying for graduate school." - Zach Bell, BSEd
"Through the College of Health Sciences, I was able to develop my skills in all facets
 of scientific research including subject recruitment and screening, data collection
 and statistical analysis, blood collection and processing, manuscript writing/poster
 preparation, exposure undertaking biochemical assays, and collaboration with other
 graduate students. Above all else though, I was mentored on the scientific process
 and how to undertake it in a research environment. These enabled me to progress onto
 a premier biomedical institution and research laboratory." - Cam McCarthy, PhD

Exercise Science Laboratories
Within the College of Health Sciences, a collection of faculty-directed laboratories is available devoted to the scientific study of human health and aspects of performance.
 Numerous studies of varied foci are conducted each year within the laboratories. Faculty
 members within Exercise Science secure external funding to support their research
 and their work is published in both national and international peer-reviewed journals.
 
Both undergraduate and graduate students have opportunities to participate in faculty-directed
 research. Students also work within the various labs as volunteers, interns or graduate
 research assistants.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/23/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































