https://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/graduate/licensure-program-requirements.php



 



MSW Licensure Program Requirements - 
 	Social Work
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Social Work
 	








About
Programs
Apply Now
Students
Faculty & Staff
Research
Community









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





 About the MSW ProgramBrochureProgram & Study Plans


 Prospective MSW StudentsMSW Information SessionsProgram EligibilityHow to Apply & DeadlinesFAQs


 Current Students

Student Handbook

Semester Schedules

MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements


 FieldField HandbookField AgenciesFormsField Powerpoint


 Financial Aid & ScholarshipsMSW-SDSAdditional Funding OpportunitiesINTEGRATE


UofM Graduate Catalog




Take Action



Learn more about Social Work
Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy
Support Social Work Education
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	Social Work
 	

 	Graduate
 	MSW Licensure Program Requirements

MSW School Social Work Licensure Program
The School of Social Work at the University of Memphis offers school social work licensure
 preparation for both current and post MSW students. See below for details.
 
View a slideshow detailing the UofM School Social Work Licensure Program.
POST-Graduate MSW Option
Professionals with an MSW from University of Memphis or any other accredited graduate
 program may complete all necessary courses through the School of Social Work at University
 of Memphis. View the Post-Graduate School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements and the Tennessee State School Social Work Licensure Application.
 
Current MSW Students
Admission Requirements
MSW students seeking school social work licensure must meet all admission requirements
 of the MSW program. These requirements are:
 

University of Memphis Graduate Application
Completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited university with a 3.0 grade point
 average
Submission of all undergraduate and graduate transcripts.
Submission of GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores.
Master of Social Work Application.
Professional Goal Statement.
Three professional references.
Resume.

In addition, students seeking school social work licensure must have the following:

Apply to the Teacher Education Program (TEP)
Complete the TEP application
Have an Undergraduate GPA of 3.0
Take the PRAXIS CORE Test (BA students must take this)
Submit verification of background check.

Minimum scores
GRE scores of : 3.5 writing; 143 verbal; 138 (350 on old GRE) quantitative or combined
 verbal & quantitative of 281 will result in the PRAXIS CORE examination being waived
 (this is applicable to graduate students only).
 

If your GRE scores fall below the set requirements then you can schedule an appointment
 to take the Praxis CORE examination.
 
If just your GRE writing score was below the requirement (3.5) but your Verbal and
 Quantitative Scores met the requirement, then simply schedule to retake the CORE writing.
 
If your GRE Verbal and Qualitative Scores were below the requirement: 143 verbal (350
 Old GRE); 138 (350 Old GRE) quantitative or combined verbal & quantitative of 281,
 then you must take the entire CORE examination in order to enter the TEP program.
 
Click this link to find out more about the Praxis CORE requirements:
Click this link to schedule to take the Praxis CORE: http://www.ets.org/praxis/

Curriculum
MSW students will meet all requirements for Tennessee School Social Work Licensure
 through the completion of three courses (SWRK 6937/4937: School Social Work, SWRK
 7016 or 7017, and SPED 6112: Functional Analysis/Treatment of Problem Behavior) and
 field placement (SWRK 7053-54). The course descriptions are provided below.
 
SWRK 6937: School Social Work
The purpose of this course is to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for successful
 and competent social work in public schools. The course covers the varied roles and
 functions of school social workers in their practice with diverse groups of students,
 families, school personnel, and diverse communities. It emphasizes best practices
 in assessing, intervening, and evaluating social work practice across all system levels.
 PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program.
 
SWRK 7016: Advanced Individual Child/Youth OR 7017: Advanced Family Child Youth
 
SPED 6112: Func Anlys/Treat Prob Behv Online (3) (Now only offered in Spring)
Examines principles, issues, approaches, and strategies for conducting Functional
 Behavior Assessment and Functional analysis. 
 
SWRK 7051/52 or 7053/54: Field Placement
MSW students must complete a minimum of 960 clock hours of field placement. 400 hours
 are completed in the foundation field placement sequence: SWRK 7051-7052. 560 hours
 are completed in the concentration field placement sequence: SWRK 7053-7054. MSW students
 must apply and be accepted into the Teacher Education Program. In addition, they must
 obtain a background check and at least 1 million/3 million dollars professional liability
 insurance via a reputable organization or company that provides coverage for social
 workers prior to placement in the field. Students should also review the student field
 manual and student handbook for information regarding the requirements for liability
 insurance coverage. The MSW program requires that students get two different field
 experiences in their foundation and concentration years. Therefore, students are not
 allowed to complete both field placements at the same agency. Students seeking school
 social work licensure will complete their concentration year field placement in a
 school setting. Table 3 outlines the link between Tennessee School Social Work licensure
 standards, field placement requirements course, and field placement assessments.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/12/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































