https://www.memphis.edu/earthsciences/programs/undergraduate/undergraduate-courses.php



 



Earth Sciences Undergraduate Courses - 
 	Earth Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Earth Sciences
 	








About
Programs
Faculty
Research
Student Resources
Career Path
Make a Gift









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Earth Sciences Programs





 Undergraduate Students

About the BA

Minor

Courses

Advising

4 year sequence


 Graduate StudentsAbout the ProgramCertificatesCoursesApplication ProcessGraduate CoordinatorProspective Students


 GIS CertificateAboutFrequently Asked QuestionsSAGE LaboratoryTestimonials


GIS Workshop Series

Minor in Earth Sciences




Take Action



Apply Now!
News and Colloquium
Field Activities
Contact Us








Home

 	Earth Sciences
 	

 	Earth Sciences Programs
 	Earth Sciences Undergraduate Courses

Earth Sciences (ESCI) Undergraduate Courses
Please visit The University of Memphis Undergraduate Catalog for more information regarding courses.
 
Additional fees are charged for some Earth Sciences lecture and laboratory courses.
 See the online class listings or the Expenses section of the Catalog.
 
In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics
 courses:
 

ESCI 4308-12. Special Topics in Regional Geography. (3). Geographic analysis of physical, cultural, economic characteristics of a selected
 world geographic region, including Europe, United States, Canada, Central America,
 South America. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with a change in topic.
 
ESCI 4370-79. Special Topics in Archaeology. (3). May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with a change in topic.
 
ESCI 4610-19. Special Topics In Geography. (3). (GEOG). Topics are varied and in online class listings.
 

ESCI 1010 - Weather and Climate (4)(GEOG 1010). Atmospheric processes and geographic distribution of radiation, moisture,
 pressure, and circulation interacting to create weather systems and storms; oceanic
 influences, earth-sun relationships, global climate patterns; human interaction with
 atmosphere. Laboratory exercises, observations, and experiments designed to apply
 scientific methods. Fee $25.00 lab fee. Three hours lecture, three hours laboratory
 per week. [G]
 
ESCI 1020 - Landforms (4)(GEOG 1020). Agents and processes of landform development and geographic relationships
 of landscapes including volcanic, fluvial, glacial, and coastal environments; soil
 development and vegetation associations; environmental hazards to humans; maps and
 aerial photo interpretation as sources of environmental information. Laboratory exercises,
 observations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods subjects. Fee $25.00
 lab fee. Three hours lecture, two hours laboratory per week. [G]
 
ESCI 1040 - Physical Geology (4)(GEOL). Introduction to processes that form the rocks in the earth's crust; the earth's
 internal forces that make mountains and volcanoes; special emphasis on topics that
 impact the Mid-South, such as earthquakes. Fee $25.00 lab fee. Three lecture hours,
 two laboratory hours per week. [G]
 
ESCI 1050 - The Earth Through Time (4)(GEOL). Overview of history of earth and its life as interpreted from rock and fossil
 record; origins of continents, mountain ranges, ocean basins and National Parks. Fee
 $25.00 lab fee. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. [G]
 
ESCI 1100 - Biol Anth & Prehistory (3)(Same as ANTH 1100). Evolutionary basis of human origins and contemporary biocultural
 variation; fossil record of primate and hominid evolution; beginnings of human society;
 discovery of agriculture and emergence of complex societies; controversies in the
 search for human origins.
 
ESCI 1103 - The Human Planet (4)(GEOL). Applications of physical geology to understanding, evaluating and solving
 problems encountered in the environment by past human populations; study in management,
 utilization and preservation of archaeological resources. Fee $25.00 lab fee. Three
 lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. [G]
 
ESCI 1301 - Survey of World Regions (3)(GEOG). (TBR: GEOG 2010). Survey of economic, cultural and physical traits characteristic
 of developing and industrialized nations. [G]
 
ESCI 1401 - Intro/Cultural Geography (3)(GEOG). (TBR: GEOG 1030). Geographical aspects of human behavior; distributional patterns
 and interactions of such cultural characteristics as language, religion, politics,
 and economics. [G]
 
ESCI 2300 - Great Discoveries in Archaeology (3)(Same as ANTH 2300). Great discoveries of archaeology that underlie our understandings
 of ancient societies and social institutions are explored. Overviews of major archaeological
 investigations, the archaeologists, and contemporary excavation practices; beginnings
 of society; discovery of agriculture; and the emergence of complex societies provide
 the basis to emphasize basics of the scientific methods of archaeology and the obligation
 to learn from prehistory.
 
ESCI 2301 - Fundamentals of Archaeology (4)(Same as ANTH 2301). Hands-on experience in archaeological methods; survey of past
 civilizations; critical evaluation of how modern archaeological methods and theories
 are applied. Fee Course Fee: $25. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1100, recommended.
 
ESCI 3100 - Seminar in Emergency Mgmt (3)(Same as EMGT 3100 and PADM 3100). Synthesizing and integrating the various elements
 of emergency management.
 
ESCI 3131 - Severe Weather (3)Descriptive account of the physical processes important in the formation of blizzards,
 ice storms, thunderstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, and heat waves. PREREQUISITE:
 ESCI 1010
 
ESCI 3200 - People/Culture World (3)Major ethnographic areas and selected cultures of world.
 
ESCI 3211 - Invertebrate Paleontology (4)(GEOL). Fossil invertebrate animals and their importance in interpretation of ancient
 environments, evolution, and geologic time. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours
 per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 3221 - Principles/Conservation (3)(GEOG). Development of conservation ethic and wilderness concepts; survey of environmental
 problems, land use, and energy and resource utilization; soil erosion and crop productivity
 relationships.
 
ESCI 3311 - Mineralogy/Petrology (4)(GEOL). Classification and identification of minerals. igneous rocks, metamorphic
 rocks in hand specimen; geological occurrence and use of minerals; genesis and occurrence
 of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Fee Course Fee: $25. Three lecture hours, two laboratory
 hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or 1040, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 3451 - Intro/Urban Planning (3)(GEOG). Introduction to regional and urban planning emphasizing spatial relationships
 of physical, economic, and cultural phenomena necessary in planning process.
 
ESCI 3602 - Introduction to Geophysics (3)Physical methods used to study the earth's interior. Each method is based on a particular
 area of physics such as seismology, potential methods (gravity and magnetics), electricity
 and magnetism, radioactivity, and heat. Emphasis is placed on the interpretive aspects
 of each of the methods, as well as on their relative advantages and limitations. PREREQUISITE:
 PHYS 2010.
 
ESCI 3712 - Sedimentology/Stratighy (4)(GEOL). Origin and classification of sedimentary rocks and mutual relationship of
 sedimentary rock bodies both geographically and through geologic time. Lecture emphasizes
 comparison of modern depositional systems with their ancient counterparts. Laboratory
 emphasizes hand specimen analysis and preparation of geologic maps. Fee Course Fee:
 $25. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1050.
 
ESCI 3802 - Oceanography (3)(GEOL 3802). Origin, chemistry, water circulation, shoreline and deep water characteristics
 of oceans; its role in evolution and history of earth; marine life and its ecology.
 
ESCI 4122 - Soils and Soil Processes (3)(GEOG 4122). Processes and dynamics of soil profile development; major models of soil
 development examined and applied to soil genesis in Tennessee; application of soil
 techniques to archaeology, planning, earth sciences, and soil conservation and erosion
 problems; emphasis on field and laboratory techniques with field work in soil mapping
 and soil taxonomy. Fee Course Fee: $25. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per
 week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or ESCI 1040.
 
ESCI 4201 - Urbanization/Environment (3)(GEOG). Ways man has changed natural environment by urbanization and how physical
 features and processes influence development and function of cities.
 
ESCI 4202 - Geomorphology (4)(GEOL). Description, origin and interpretation of landforms and their relationships
 to underlying structure and geologic history; processes acting on earth's surface,
 including active tectonics; weather; mass-wasting; climate change; and fluvial, shoreline,
 and glacial processes. Fee Course Fee: $25. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours
 per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or ESCI 1040
 
ESCI 4211 - Physical Hydrology (4)(CIVL 4211). Movement, storage and development of groundwater; groundwater in the
 hydrologic cycle; aquifer characteristics and tests. Fee Course Fee: $25. Three lecture
 hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040 and MATH 1830 or equivalent.
 
ESCI 4213 - Field Methods/Hydrology (3)(GEOL). Practice of field methods in solving hydrologic problems. PREREQUISITE: ESCI
 4211, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4214 - Climatology (3)(GEOG 4211). Climatic elements and methods of data analysis; applications of climatology
 in agriculture, health, economics, and architecture. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, MATH
 1710, and PHYS 2010, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4215 - Physical Climatology (3)(GEOG). Components of earth's energy balance, emphasis on solar radiation, heat transfer,
 and evapotranspiration. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010 and PHYS 2010/2011.
 
ESCI 4216 - Synoptic Meteorology (3)Physical processes in the atmosphere applied to analysis and interpretation of synoptic
 (regional) scale systems using weather maps, upper-air soundings, satellite and radar
 imagery, and computer model output; introduction to techniques used in weather forecasting.
 PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, MATH 1710 and PHYS 2010, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4231 - Water Resources (3)(GEOG). Hydrologic processes and their application to needs of cities, industry, agriculture,
 and recreation.
 
ESCI 4241 - Biogeog/GIS Analyses/Ecology (3)(GEOG). (Same as BIOL 4241). Basic principles of interaction between geography, organism
 diversity and evolution; physical factors limiting species distribution, theories
 of island biogeography, geographical modes of speciation. Laboratories introduce principles
 of GIS, basic functions of ArcGIS, and other programs relevant to ecological studies.
 Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121,
 or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4251 - Environmental Hazards (3)(GEOG). Environmental hazard and disaster experiences to investigate the nature, impact,
 and social responses to environmental hazards; focus is placed on relationship between
 nature, society, and technology in how people and places perceive, experience, and
 cope with environmental hazards.
 
ESCI 4252 - Global Environmental Change (3)(GEOP). Characteristics of natural systems; magnitude of human alteration of environmental
 systems; history of natural changes in climate and landscape; impact of changes. PREREQUISITE:
 permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4261 - Plan Sustainable Cities/Region (3)Multidisciplinary and multi-scaled approach to understanding the sustainability of
 natural and built environments in planning cities and regions; methods for measuring
 sustainability; emerging development concepts and practices; technology, efficiency,
 social equity and public health implications of sustainability; sustainable urban/regional
 form of the future.
 
ESCI 4301 - Archaeology/North America (3)(Same as ANTH 4301). Intensive study of various prehistoric cultures from earliest
 times until historic contact. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1100, 1200, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4307 - Thematic Studies/China (3)Geographic analysis of physical, cultural, and economic characteristics of China and
 neighboring regions.
 
ESCI 4325 - Archaeol Fld/Lab Techn (3)(Same as ANTH 4325). Field excavation, specimen preparation, use of survey instruments
 and photography, map making, archaeological record keeping; methods and techniques
 in archaeological laboratory analysis; emphasis on organization and supervision of
 laboratory procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4332 - Intro to Geochemistry (3)(GEOL). Geological and chemical processes that govern or control migration and distribution
 of elements and atomic species of earth in space and time. Three lecture hours per
 week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 3311, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4335 - Analysis of Stone Artifacts (3)(Same as ANTH 4335). Much of the prehistoric cultural record is pieced together through
 the analysis of stone artifacts. The class outlines the basics of stone "lithics"
 artifact analysis through an in-depth study of current techniques, instrumentation,
 and theory. Lecture is augmented by class discussion and hands-on experimentation
 "flintknapping."
 
ESCI 4341 - Aqueous Geochemistry (3)(GEOL). Physical chemistry of aqueous solutions as applied to geochemical processes
 on earth's surface. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1120.
 
ESCI 4350 - Archaeology of Collapse (3)(Same as ANTH 4350). Emphasis on archaeology of regional politics and archaic states
 throughout the world. Overview of social and political collapse of complex societies.
 
ESCI 4352 - Old World Archaeology (3)(3351) (Same as ANTH 4352). Old World cultures from first humans to early civilizations.
 
ESCI 4365 - Cultural Resource Mgmt (3)(ANTH 4375-6375). The majority of archaeological work in North America is conducted
 in compliance with tribal, state, and federal legislation in Cultural Resource Management
 (CRM). The ultimate goals of this course is to prepare students for CRM roles and
 responsibilities through learning the historic development, current legislation, practices
 and real world skills needed to conduct CRM work.
 
ESCI 4430 - Economic Geography (3)(GEOG). Spatial characteristics and distribution of economic activities.
 
ESCI 4431 - Urban Geography (3)(GEOG). Geography of urban processes and forms; cultural, social, economic, and political
 aspects of the contemporary city.
 
ESCI 4443 - Transportation Planning (3)(GEOG). Planning for various transportation modes and networks and impact they have
 on land use and contemporary development problems.
 
ESCI 4502 - Computer Cartography (3)(GEOG). Use of computer mapping programs as effective techniques for visual presentation
 of wide variety of data. Fee Course Fee: $25. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours
 per week.
 
ESCI 4511 - Remote Sensing/Environ (3)(GEOG 4511). Survey of theory and application of using color, infrared, thermal, and
 radar images generated from satellite and aerial photographs for geographic, geologic,
 environmental, and planning purposes. Fee Course Fee: $25. Two lecture hours, two
 laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: one college-level MATH course, or permission
 of instructor.
 
ESCI 4512 - Structural Geology (4)(Was 3512). (GEOL). Structures of the crust; geometry of folds and faults, rock deformation,
 criteria for recognizing structures, solution of geometrical problems. Fee Course
 Fee: $25. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040,
 MATH 1910, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4515 - Geographic Info Science (3)(GEOG). Theoretical and practical understanding of fundamental GIS concepts, capabilities,
 and applications; nature of geographic data and issues of data input, data models,
 database design, spatial analysis, data output using ArcGIS software. Three lecture
 hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010 or 1020 or permission
 of instructor.
 
ESCI 4521 - Quantitative Methods (3)(GEOG). Introduction to quantitative methods in spatial analysis.ESCI 4525 - Adv Geographic Info Science (3)(GEOG). Design and implementation of spatial analysis approaches within the context
 of GIS technology; development of a sound understanding of the operational basis of
 modern GIS technology. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4515, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4526 - Advanced Remote Sensing (3)Practical exercises and datasets to elaborate on fundamental skills introduced in
 ESCI 4511. Topics include advanced image enhancement techniques, hyper-spectral image
 analysis, change detection, and analysis of active sensor system (LiDAR). PREREQUISITE:
 ESCI 4511, or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4531 - Field Methods/Geography (3)(GEOG). Basic methods of geographic analysis used in classifying, analyzing and reporting
 field generated data including field mapping, sampling procedures, questionnaires
 and archival and public document research. Fee Course Fee: $25. One and one-half lecture
 hours, three laboratory hours per week.
 
ESCI 4541 - Geography/Field Studies (1-6)(GEOG). Faculty conducted field trip emphasizing study of geographic phenomena. Location
 will vary. Topics may include physical landscapes, landaus patterns, cross-cultural
 analysis, micro and regional economics, or other geographical processes. Credit hours
 based on length of time in field. Requires field journal and report to receive credit.
 May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change in content. PREREQUISITE:
 permission of instructor and completion of special registration.
 
ESCI 4551 - Urban Planning Studio (3)(GEOG). Application of planning process to urban problems and preparation of plans
 for the urban area. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 3451 or permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4621 - Investigations In GEOG (1-3)(GEOG). Student, under faculty supervision, studies in-depth particular geographic
 topic. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit with change in content. PREREQUISITE:
 approval of instructor.
 
ESCI 4622 - Geology Field Camp (6)(GEOL). Preparation of structural and lithologic maps in prescribed geologic areas
 using topographic maps and aerial photographs. Instruments used are the alidade and
 the Brunton compass. Offered in summer school only. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 3311, 3512,
 and 3712.
 
ESCI 4680 - Applied Archaeology/Museums (3)(Same as ANTH 4680). Representations of cultural heritage in a broad array of public
 venues; repatriation, cultural patrimony, cultural resource management, civic engagement,
 rights and responsibilities of stakeholders, public involvement in museum representations,
 performance and education, culture and memory.
 
ESCI 4700 - Earth Science Internship (1-9)(GEOG). Experience working with agency in which knowledge of earth science can be
 utilized. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. Credit allowed only after
 acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: approval of instructor and department chair. (S/U)
 
ESCI 4701 - ESCI Field Excursions (1-2)(GEOL). Conducted field trips during spring vacation. About 30 hours of field work
 follow 2-4 hours of lectures. Open to nonmajors. Among areas which may be included
 are Ouachita-Arbuckle-Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma; Ouachita, Ozark dome and adjacent
 mineral districts; central and southern Appalachians; Gulf Coastal Plain; Death Valley,
 CA; and Grand Canyon, AZ. Check online class listings for specific location. Fee Course
 Fee: $25. NOTE: May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours credit. Dates, hours and
 credits to be arranged. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor.
 
ESCI 4722 - Investigation In ESCI (1-3)(GEOP). Individual or group work on topics of current interest in the broad field
 of earth sciences. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE permission
 of instructor.
 
ESCI 4731 - Senior Thesis (1-3)(GEOL). Original study on subject of significance to earth science to be carried on
 independently by student with faculty supervision. PREREQUISITE: senior standing in
 Geology.
 
ESCI 4801 - Seminar in Applied Geography (3)(GEOG). Perspectives and techniques of geography applied to contemporary topics in
 a seminar format based on review of literature, current issues, and the written and
 oral presentation student work. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, 1020, 1011, 1021, 1301 or
 4307-12, or 3430, 3514 and two additional upper division courses selected from two
 of the following areas: human/economic, environmental/earth, or the techniques. Registration
 by permit only.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/14/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































