https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/graduate/environmental_nutrition.php



 



Environmental Nutrition - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





Graduate Admissions

MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science

MS Health Promotion

MS Exercise Nutrition

MS Physical Education Teacher Education

MS Environmental Nutrition

MS Nutrition Science

 MS Clinical NutritionAboutAdmissionsMS & DI Combined ProgramResourcesStudentsPreceptors


 PhD Applied Physiology & NeuromechanicsAboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty





Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Graduate
 	Environmental Nutrition

Master's Degree in Environmental Nutrition


A UofM Global program
The master's degree in Environmental Nutrition is a fully online, 33-credit-hour program
 that explores sustainable food and nutrition issues. The program examines the relationships
 between food, nutrition and the environment.
 
Relevant research and theoretical foundations towards best practices guides the curriculum.
 Issues related to food sustainability, traditional food practices, food justice and
 complementary approaches to nutrition are examined. You will complete an applied project
 and internship grounded in the practical application of sustainable nutrition practices.
 
Background of Candidates
As a generalist program, environmental nutrition students have a variety of undergraduate
 degrees including dietetics, nursing, health promotion, medicine, education, exercise
 science, food science, biology, anthropology, community health, psychology and others.
 
The program provides an advanced degree option for members of the workforce with food
 and nutrition responsibilities employed by schools, industry, health care, government
 and non-profit organizations.
 
We invite applications from students who wish to emphasize applied work in sustainable
 food and nutrition practices. You must have a minimum of a bachelor's degree with
 some background in the biological sciences and nutrition. Applicants will be selected
 for admission to the program on the basis of grade point average, narrative statement
 and personal goals and letters of reference. Graduate record examination (GRE) within
 the past five years may be submitted to support the application, but is not required.
 
Registered dietitians/nutritionists (RD/RDN) may receive six credit hours of Experiential Learning Credit (ELC).
 
Some of our graduates and current students include an organic farmer, wellness educator,
 agriculture extension service agent, athlete, nurse, rancher, non-profit employee,
 registered dietitian nutritionists and registered dietetic technician.
 
For more info: Robin Roach | rroach@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

Major
Nutrition

Concentration: Environmental Nutrition (online)
Degree: Master of Science (MS)
Degree Sheet

When completing the MS application, your major will be Nutrition with a concentration in Environmental Nutrition.
 
Careers
Upon graduating with a master’s degree in environmental nutrition, you are well prepared
 for advancement in the workplace within:
 

non-profit organizations with food and nutrition missions.
corporate positions with food and nutrition programs.
local, state and national government food and nutrition programs.
international food and nutrition programs/agencies.
school food and nutrition services.
healthcare facilities.
wellness/health promotion programs

The online program delivery is designed to accommodate employees who could benefit
 with job advancement or job security through acquiring an applied master’s degree
 in a flexible manner.
 
Scholarship
Jane Nuckolls Endowed Scholarship in Environmental Nutrition is awarded each year.
 For more information, please view the UofM Tiger Scholarship Manager.
 
Testimonials
"I knew I wanted to continue my education after receiving my undergraduate degree
 at Appalachian State University in dietetics and am so glad I found the Environmental
 Nutrition program at UofM! As someone who is passionate about sustainability and health,
 it was a perfect fit. The asynchronous classes also allowed me to work full-time as
 a nutrition educator while studying. In my second year, I was matched to the Garden
 to Table Nutrition distance dietetic internship with a focus in sustainability and
 local food production— I'm confident that my studies in Environmental Nutrition paved
 the way. I highly recommend this graduate program for anyone who wants to explore
 connections between health, environment and justice!" -Samara Tena
"When I began the environmental nutrition program at the University of Memphis, I
 lived in Washington state, where I owned and sustainably operated an organic farm
 and vineyard. Earning my master's degree was possible because this program is offered
 online! I was able to work, doing what I am passionate about, and learn at the same
 time. This program has covered many important issues facing our society and the health
 of our planet today. There should be some form of Environmental Nutrition curriculum
 in every classroom across the country."  -Sarah Addams
"I really love the environmental nutrition program at UofM! I'm very passionate about
 nutrition, sustainability and the environment, so for me, this degree is all-encompassing.
 I spent my undergrad at Ithaca College where I received a bachelor's in biology and
 a minor in nutrition; being able to continue my studies in a field I'm very enthusiastic
 about, especially via their online campus, is what immediately attracted me to this
 program. I was the first candidate to be awarded the Jane Nuckolls Endowed Scholarship
 in Environmental Nutrition, which I'm greatly thankful for. I've recently started
 my own food and cooking education business teaching people the importance of sustainable,
 healthy practices." -Kristyn Polucha
"I cannot tell you how wonderful this degree has been to achieve. I have loved every
 bit of it. It has made me dig deeper into what I 'think' I believe about sustainable
 food systems and study the issues to solidify my work and my recommendations in this
 field. I am excited to see what the next chapter of my career will bring and I feel
 confident that this degree will solidify my work in food justice and sustainable food
 systems." -Nikkole Turner
"After completing the master's program in environmental nutrition, I was accepted
 into the dietetic internship program at Iowa State University. Because of my relevant
 graduate work, I received four weeks of prior-assessed learning credits and was recruited
 to serve on a pilot project on Sustainable, Resilient, and Healthy Food and Water
 Systems at Iowa State." -Lauren Hulen Boggs













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/27/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































