https://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/undergraduate/index.php



 



Undergraduate - 
 	Philosophy
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Philosophy
 	








Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Research
News & Events
Resources
Contact









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate Program Resources





About

Undergrad Courses

The Online B.A.

Advising

Philosophy and Law

Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts

Philosophy Circle

Awards and Activities




Take Action



Apply to the Graduate Program
Online B.A.
3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program
Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts
Support the Department




Follow Us Online
Facebook




Home

 	Philosophy
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	

About the Undergraduate Program in Philosophy
Philosophy Major
Program objectives for a B.A. in Philosophy are (a) to acquire fundamental knowledge
 reflecting the subdivisions within the discipline; (b) to express a high degree of
 satisfaction with the program and instruction within the department; and (c) to be
 able to demonstrate skills which will be beneficial in further study or in their career
 paths.
 
A. University General Education Program (41 hours)
See Graduation from the University link for the University General Education Program
 requirements.
 
B. Undergraduate Catalog
The College of Arts and Sciences and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition
 to the University General Education Program requirements.
 
C. The Major (30 hours)
Completion of 30 semester hours in philosophy courses including PHIL 1101 or 1102,
 1611, 3001 (Fall), 3002 (Spring), 3411 (Fall) or 3511 (Spring) and 15 additional upper
 division semester hours. To prepare philosophy students for success in a number of
 fields, the department offers a variety of upper division courses. See the philosophy
 section of the Undergraduate Catalog for course descriptions or see our Undergraduate Courses here.
 
D. Electives
Additional electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. See
 the Undergraduate Catalog for more information.
 
E. Honors Program
This program is open to philosophy majors with a 3.0 overall average and a 3.5 average
 in philosophy. The student will complete, with a minimum grade of "B", a thesis submitted
 for credit in PHIL 4891. The thesis topic must be approved by the thesis director
 before the student registers for PHIL 4891. Those students who complete the program
 and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony
 by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Philosophy." Moreover, the student's
 diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this distinction.
 
Philosophy Minor
Completion of 18 semester hours in philosophy courses, including PHIL 1101 or 1102,
 1311 or 1611, and 12 upper division semester hours. In consultation with the coordinator
 of undergraduate studies in philosophy, a student may design a minor (18 hours) that
 applies to the student's major area of study.
 
Online BA in Philosophy - Concentration in Applied Ethics
This program focuses on ethical theories and ethical problem-solving in the context
 of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Core courses
 in this program provide a solid foundation in the history of philosophy and logic.
 
You can find more information about our online program here (link will open site in new window).
 

Why choose Philosophy as a major?
The number one skill you will achieve as a philosophy major is the ability to think
 logically, critically and independently. What future employer wouldn't want that in
 an employee? And even better... How do you rise to the ranks of being the boss/the
 business owner/the CEO? By thinking logically, critically and independently.
 
Philosophy is a springboard for a number of professions. It prepares you for law school
 and other professional programs, and it can give you a solid foundation for a career
 in business, teaching, writing or public service. So yes, you can stick around a university
 and become a professor, OR you can move on to do some truly incredible, ground-breaking
 things, all rooted in critical thought.
 
Explore our career resources >













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/1/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































