https://www.memphis.edu/csd/programs/slpadmissions.php



 



Speech-Language Pathology (M.A.) Admissions - 
 	School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	








About
Programs
People
Research Areas
Student Orgs
Resources
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 MA in SLP

Admissions

Curriculum

Non-CSD Coursework

Clinical Education

Additional Information

Apply Now

SLP Program Description

SLP Program Goals


 AuD in AudiologyAdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program


 PhD in CSDAdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals


 American Sign LanguageASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL CoursesASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL?


 Graduate CertificatesAACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology


 Continuing EducationAAC Workshop


Diversity




Take Action



Apply Now
Support the School
Memphis Speech and Hearing Center
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitter




Home

 	School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	

 	Programs
 	Speech-Language Pathology (M.A.) Admissions

Admissions
The Master of Arts (M.A.) degree program in Speech-Language Pathology (SLP) requires
 a two-year commitment of 5-7 semesters (including summers) and a minimum of 60 semester
 hours of credit. In addition, students must meet all academic and clinical requirements
 specified by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA) for the Certificate
 of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology.
 
For admission to the Master's degree program in SLP, students are required to submit
 an application to the Communication Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application
 Service (CSDCAS). See our Apply to Professional Programs page for specific details on the application process.
 
Admission to the Master of Arts program in SLP only occurs once per calendar year.
 The deadline for all verified application materials is February 1, 2022 for the 2022 admissions class.
 
We strongly encourage students who have degrees in other areas to apply to the program.
 There are undergraduate courses in other subjects that are required in order to complete
 the M.A. program. In the CSDCAS portal, this coursework is listed as "prerequisites",
 but these courses are not required for admission. If you have not met these requirements in your undergraduate program, you will be
 required to complete them during your graduate program. You may want to consider completing
 this coursework prior to your first semester of graduate school. For more information
 about non-CSD undergraduate coursework visit our Non-CSD Coursework page or ASHA.
 
Typically, students with non-CSD backgrounds will begin their program in the Summer
 term and students with a background in CSD will begin in the Fall term. There are
 two courses offered in the Summer term for incoming students:
 

AUSP 7006, Language Development (online only)
AUSP 7502, Intro to Phonetic Transcription (2nd Part of Summer term)

For more information about Summer term classes for incoming students and typical course
 sequences visit our SLP Additional Information page.
 
The GRE is required to be considered for the 2022 admissions class.  We have no set
 thresholds for GRE or GPA scores. For applicants who take the GRE more than once,
 we consider the highest set of scores. The average GRE scores for students most recently
 accepted in the program were 303 (verbal: 153, quantitative: 150, writing: 4) and
 the average GPA score (all four years of the undergraduate degree) was 3.69 (4 point
 scale). For more information about our program statistics locate the University of Memphis listing on ASHA's EdFind.
 
Summer Classes for Incoming M.A. Students
There are two courses offered in the Summer term for incoming students:

AUSP 7006, Language Development (online only)
AUSP 7502, Intro to Phonetic Transcription (2nd Part of Summer term)

If you meet any of the following criteria you will need to take AUSP 7006 in the summer
 of the year you are admitted:
 

You have never taken a Child Language Development Course
You have taken a Child Language Development Course and earned a C+ or lower grade
You do not pass our online assessment on key topics related to Child Language Development
 (assessment is only available to students who have already completed a course in Child
 Language Development)
 

Introduction to Transcription will be offered in the 2nd half of the summer semester.
 Students should consult their advisors upon admission to the program to determine
 if they need to take this course.
 
Apply Now to our SLP Program
If you have specific questions about the application process, contact:
admissionscsd@memphis.edu 
For additional information about our Master's degree program, contact:
Naomi Eichorn, PhD901.678.5800neichorn@memphis.edu

TOURS
In order to protect the health of prospective students and our faculty and staff,
 we are offering a limited number of in-person tours that will be capped at no more
 than 5 participants who will need to be masked. Due to the limitations on our tour
 sizes, we can only allow prospective students to participate in walking tours at this
 time. There will be 2 in-person tours available on each of the following dates:
 

August 13
September 10
October 8
November 12
December 10

The first tour will start at 11 a.m. and will meet in the building lobby. The second
 tour will start at 11:45 a.m. in Community Health Building, Room 2042B.
 
For those who are not able to attend an in-person tour, we are offering Virtual Open
 Houses of the program that will feature an opportunity to learn about the admissions
 process and speak with current faculty and students. There is no cap on participants
 for the Virtual Open Houses. All Virtual Open Houses for Fall 2021 will start at 11:45
 a.m. (CST). They are held on the same dates as the tours.
 
Please email us to reserve your spot on one of our upcoming tours or to attend a Virtual Open House.
 
We encourage prospective students to view our virtual tour and connect with us on Facebook or Twitter to learn more about events and programs happening in the School and Clinic. We can
 answer your questions via email as well.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 8/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































