https://www.memphis.edu/planning/programs/index.php



 



Programs - 
 	Planning
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			City and Regional Planning
 	







About
Programs
People
Research/Outreach
Giving
Design Collaborative









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Program Resources





Master's Degree

Dual Degrees

Undergraduate Study

Study Abroad

UofM Graduate Catalog




Take Action



Apply to Our Master's Program
Assistantships and Financial Support
Contact Us!
SUAPP




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	Planning
 	

 	Programs
 	

Master of City & Regional Planning
The Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP) degree is awarded after the successful
 completion of 48 semester hours. The MCRP degree establishes credentials for certified
 planning practice and is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB).
 
Degree Requirements
The 48-hour program of study is divided into three parts as follows:
Core Curriculum (24 hours):
These courses are required of all students in the program and provide knowledge and
 skills essential to the discipline. With previous training or experience, credit by
 examination can be given for a portion of the required courses.
 
Focused Electives (18-21 hours):
A bundle of electives provide the student with a sequence of special interest courses
 chosen from throughout the University. The 18 hours of electives allow the student
 to extend basic knowledge gained in the core curriculum and can include such subjects
 as economic development planning, urban design, land use and transportation planning,
 planning information systems, housing and community development planning, planning
 law, environmental planning, etc. Electives are chosen in consultation with a faculty
 advisor.
 
Terminal Project Requirement  (3 or 6 hours):
Students have two options for meeting the Terminal Project requirement: an individual
 capstone research option or a group studio option.
 

Terminal Project Option 1. Students who wish to pursue individual research can complete a 3-hour Capstone Project,
 submitted as a written report and orally defended, as a terminal experience designed
 to demonstrate mastery of planning process and substance.
 
Terminal Project Option 2. Students seeking more community engagement opportunities and experience in field-work
 and group development of planning policies and interventions can complete two additional
 studio courses for a total of six (6) hours from among PLAN 6801 Design Collaborative
 Studio or PLAN 7007 Project Planning Studio.
 

A comprehensive examination must be successfully completed by the end of the semester
 in which the student expects to graduate.
 
Sequence of Courses
The sequence of courses is designed so that a student may be admitted to the program
 during either the fall or spring semester. A full-time student enrolls in 12 hours
 of course work during each semester. A majority of the core courses are offered during
 the first year to provide a basis for second year electives. The second year Comprehensive
 Planning Studio (7006) is a workshop course for the application of basic principles
 learned during the first year. The typical sequence of courses for a full-time student
 who starts the program in the fall semester is outlined below:
 
Fall - 1st Year
Planning the American City (7000)Analysis for Community Planning (7012) Site Planning (7008)Land Use Controls (7004)
 
Spring - 1st Year
Land Use Planning (7202)Planning and the Metro Economy (7011) Planning Theory and Perspectives (7002)Elective
 
Fall - 2nd Year
Comprehensive Planning Studio (7006)ElectiveElectiveElective or Studio
 
Spring - 2nd Year
ElectiveElectiveElectiveCapstone Project or Studio
 
 
Electives
The Planning Program at The University of Memphis offers a wide range of elective
 courses:
 
Urbanization and Environment (6201)
Community Economic Development
Community Organizing
Urban Food Systems
Planning Sustainable Cities & Regions (6261)
Water Resources (6231)
Transportation Planning (6443)
Geographic Information Science (6515)
Regional Planning (7101)
Community Facilities Planning (7201)
Urban Revitalization Planning (7204)
Seminar in Urban Design (7205)
Housing (7206)
Economics of Cities (7208)
Geographic Environmental Analysis (7302)
Seminar in Geographic Information Systems (7504)
Research Problems Seminar (7710)
Planning Practice (7708)
In addition to planning electives, other departments have courses regularly recommended
 for planning students. Some of these include Anthropology, Civil Engineering, Criminal
 Justice, Economics, Geography, Health Administration, Political Science, Public Administration,
 Real Estate, and Sociology.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/30/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































