https://www.memphis.edu/fedex/



 



FedEx Institute of Technology - 
 	FedEx Institute of Technology
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			FedEx Institute of Technology
 	












About
Research
Innovation
Engagement
Emerging Tech Training
Tech Transfer
Impact
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 Cutting-Edge Research
 
 


 
 The Institute is at the forefront of cutting-edge technology research for the University
 of Memphis
 
 





 
 Mobile Data 2 Knowledge Center of Excellence
 
 


 
 Sensor research that leads to new discoveries in healthcare using wearable technology
 
 





 
 INSTITUTE FOR INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS (IIS) CENTER OF EXCELLENCE 
 
 


 
 Learn more about the research into VR, AR and Machine Learning and more
 
 





 
 Research & Innovation Impact
 
 


 
 See the impact researchers are having across the UofM campus
 
 





 
 METAL ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING LABORATORY
 
 


 
 See applied research in action at our Metal Additive Manufacturing Lab
 
 





 
 Workforce Development Trainings
 
 


 
 The Institute offers the latest in Digital Transformation trainings to take your workforce
 to the next level
 
 





 
 Emerging Technology Talks & Events
 
 


 
 The Institute showcases the latest in emerging technologies that affect us on a global
 scale. 
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Emerging Tech Training
Research Collaborations
News & Impact
Distinguished Guests




Follow Us
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn




Home
 	FedEx Institute of Technology
 	










 


We Pursue the Breakthrough
Catalytic thinking leads to life-changing impact.
 
Welcome to the FedEx Institute of Technology at the University of Memphis. We combine
 and optimize university, corporate and community resources to propel consequential
 research and high-impact innovation, the kind of work that ultimately produces new
 technologies, patentable intellectual property, and even exciting new commercial enterprises
 committed to making the future a better place. 
 
 
Where Hard Questions Become Hard Science
How can we use personal mobile sensors to improve global health? What new paths in
 artificial intelligence can lead us to better ways of learning? How can additive manufacturing
 improve national security? These and many other questions lead our researchers in
 their quests for something new, better and far-reaching. In short, we pursue the breakthrough.
 
The FedEx Institute of Technology supports unique interdisciplinary Research Clusters
 made up of faculty members from across campus and around the world who are dedicated
 to advancing the science of what’s next. Our researchers are focused on both the most
 pressing issues facing us today and the most exciting possibilities and opportunities
 that lie ahead. 
 
Discover more about the Research we support and the impact it is making around the world.
 
 
Where Collaboration Becomes Innovation
Some experiments work well in a vacuum, but people rarely do. That’s why we create
 dynamic collaborative opportunities for business, research, education and innovation.
 Our UMRF Research Park has become a center for creative empowerment. The company we
 spun out, UMRF Ventures, provides a talent pipeline resource for companies, employment
 opportunities for students and, ultimately, a qualified pipeline of graduates for
 employers. And, our FRONTIERS initiative creates an avenue for corporate leaders to
 use our premier research resources and students to explore big ideas, overcome obstacles
 and create and bring impactful, sustainable technological solutions.
 
Learn more about how we drive Innovation.
 
 
Where Engagement Becomes Empowerment
The FedEx Institute of Technology brings experts from around the world together for
 lightning talks, hackathons, webinars and a wide variety of emerging tech training
 programs for business and industry. 
 
See how our Outreach is making the world a smarter place.
 
 
Where New Technologies Become Breakthrough Products
The Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) within the FedEx Institute of Technology is
 charged with making the UofM’s technological achievements available to the private
 sector for the development of commercial products that improve how business is conducted,
 how customers are served, and how we all live. Partnering with Epicenter, the FedEx
 Institute of Technology has created a program designed to hire postdoc fellows to
 start businesses utilizing patented intellectual property, developed both in Memphis
 and across the United States, to turn great ideas into successful companies. Our Patents2Products
 program offers these post-doc entrepreneurs a two year funded position, patented intellectual
 property and all the tools necessary to launch successful start-ups. 
 
Learn more about OTT. 
 



Upcoming Events




TuesdayDecember 7
 

 
DevMemphis - A Meetup for Memphis Software Developers



TuesdayDecember 7
 

 
Machine Learning/Data Sciences/R



ThursdayDecember 9
 

 
MemPASS/Power BI



ThursdayDecember 9
 

 
Memphis Data Pros/Power BI Monthly Meetup



MondayDecember 13-17
 

 

FIT Emerging Tech Training: Business Architecture




TuesdayDecember 14
 

 
Memphis Web Workers



SaturdayDecember 18
 

 
Memphis Game Developers Workshop



MondayDecember 20
 

 
Memphis Python



ThursdayDecember 23
 

 
Business Agility Memphis



TuesdayDecember 28
 

 
Memphis PHP



Learn More About Our Events
















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 12/1/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































