https://www.memphis.edu/bitm/programs/msbaprogram.php



 



MSIS Program - 
 	BIT
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology
 	







BIT
Programs
Faculty
Research
Prospective Students
Current Students
FCBE









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





Degree Programs

Certificate Programs

Apply Now




Take Action



Contact Us
Return to FCBE




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutube




Home

 	BIT
 	

 	Programs
 	MSIS Program 

Master of Science in Information Systems (MSIS) Program
 
*Due to unprecedented number of applications for our MS Information Systems program
 we are going to close the applications for Spring 2022 a couple of weeks earlier than
 planned.  The new deadline for applying for this program is November 17th.
 
The Master of Science in Information Systems degree offered by the Department of Business
 Information & Technology combines business management with information technologies,
 preparing students to succeed as business and systems analysts, data analysts, systems
 and application designers, technology project managers and leaders, and more.
 
The MSIS program is designed to support both full-time and part-time completion of
 the degree. The program also offers a pathway to the department's Ph.D. program.
 
Request Information
The MSIS curriculum emphasizes crucial topics such as

technology innovation
cybersecurity knowledge
data analytics including data mining, machine learning and artificial intelligence
 for business
 
mobile app development
strategic technology planning
technical systems competency
project management

The program requires 33 semester hours of approved graduate studies. Twenty-one or
 more hours must be in MIS courses.
 
Course information can be found at the Graduate School website. Admission information can be found at the Admissions website.
 
Graduate Certificates
The Department of BIT offers several 4-course graduate certificate programs. MSIS
 students can enhance their credentials by completing graduate certificate requirements
 while working toward the MSIS degree. See Certificate Programs for more details.
 
Our Faculty
Our dedicated faculty members bring to the program cutting-edge theories and applied
 practices to ensure a high-quality educational experience. They have trained at some
 of the top IT universities in the U.S., and many of them are researching and publishing
 actively.
 
International students: #Youarewelcomehere
The BIT program has a strong international flavor. Our student body and faculty reflect
 the global reach of modern information architectures and applications. We are part
 of the University of Memphis #Youarewelcomehere campaign and strongly encourage international students to apply.
 

Because the MSIS degree is STEM-coded, international students who graduate may be
 eligible to work in the U.S. for 36 months after graduation–without corporate sponsorship!
 
Opportunities for Internships
Opportunities for internships are readily available. Students are also supported by
 the Complete Professional Program, in which participants may attend workshops to improve their resumes and hone their
 interpersonal and presentation skills. Students have access to the Fogelman Internship
 Network with access to thousands of job opportunities. Our students intern at Fedex,
 St. Jude/ ALSAC, International Paper, and many more local companies.
 
Work and study opportunities
The ALSAC call center and UMRF Ventures (a joint venture between Fedex Institute of Technology and the UofM) hire many students
 to work part-time on campus. International students must have a visa that allows them
 to work off-campus.
 
Student Club
The Association for Management Information Systems (AMIS) is the UofM's student chapter of the Association of Information System. AMIS welcomes all students interested in IT careers.
 
Apply for the MS in Information Systems program today and "Power Up" your career!
 
Apply Now >
 


For further information, contact:
Graduate Programs Academic AdvisorAnna MyersEmail | 901.678.3442
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































