https://www.memphis.edu/academics/index.php



 



UofM Academics - 
 		Academics
 		 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 				UofM Academics
 		








eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact




















Academics





Academic Calendars

Colleges and Schools

 Degree ProgramsUndergrad - Majors/MinorsUndergraduate CatalogGraduate CatalogHonors ProgramUofM Global


Ranked Programs

Courses / Class Offerings

Fees (Tuition)

 BookstoresUofM BookstoreLambuth BookstoreLaw School Bookstore




Virtual Tour

Memphis
Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus.




Home
 		Academics
 		

Real-life experience. Hands-on learning.
Our researchers and faculty are leaders in over 250 fields of study. That means you
 have access to a wealth of academic choices and challenges. So get ready to dive in,
 because our idea of an education is an up-close and immersive approach.
 
Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of campus
Memphis

We're a campus that produces groundbreaking research for the benefit of mankind.We're one of only two research-intensive public universities in Tennessee. Our undergraduates
 get unprecedented research opportunities in graduate-level labs. Where self-expression flourishes. Our nationally recognized arts programs currently employ and produce some of the world's
 most prolific musicians, artists, actors and writers. And an attitude that anything is possible.UofM is where your curiosity develops and your ideas begin. This is where you learn
 the true meaning of community and teamwork. Whatever your passion, you'll discover
 endless paths toward it at UofM.
 
Students come here from all over the world to receive bachelor's, master's, professional
 and doctoral degrees. They come here to do, to create, to learn, to grow. To improve
 the world. That's what Memphis does.
Our beautiful campus is home to the FedEx Institute of Technology, where world renowned researchers solve complex problems affecting society, and the
 Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management, created by the late founder of Holiday Inn. Pre-professional training is available
 for students planning to enter dentistry, medicine, optometry, pharmacy, physical
 therapy or veterinary medicine. The University proudly offers Air Force, Army and
 Navy ROTC programs.
 
UofM Global
Making our students' lives easier is important, so we offer convenient high caliber
 degree programs entirely online through UofM Global. We take the classroom to you. Our programs are developed by UofM faculty for UofM
 students. You even have an advisor ready to help you every step of the way, just like
 you would on campus. Your diplomas and transcripts are identical to those earned by
 UofM campus students.
 
Undergraduate
What do you want to be when you grow up? With over 250 areas of study, you'll be sure
 to discover your career path at the UofM. The 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog lists college and degree options and provides specific degree requirements. Visit
 Undergraduate Majors, Minors and Concentrations for additional details.
 
Graduate
Are you interested in starting a new profession or enhancing the knowledge and experience
 you already possess? As a major urban research university, the UofM enrolls roughly
 4,000 graduate students in more than 120 degree programs, many of which are ranked
 among the best in the nation. Learn more, visit Graduate School or explore degree programs in the 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog.
 
Law School
The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law offers students two optional dual-degree programs, one joint-degree program and a
 part-time program. As the only law school in Memphis (located in downtown along the
 Mighty Mississippi River) and one of the largest in Tennessee, Memphis Law gives students
 unparalleled opportunities for success.
 
Helen Hardin Honors Program
Top academic performers with big ambitions find a rich, diverse experience through
 our Helen Hardin Honors Program, the largest honors program in Tennessee. We combine the best of a small liberal
 arts school with the wide-ranging opportunities of a large, nationally recognized
 research university. While all of the 1,300 honors students excel academically, they
 also are part of a dynamic and diverse student body of more than 20,000 students.
 The program has produced Goldwater Scholars, Truman Scholars and Fulbright Scholars.
 Many departments within specific academic programs offer their own honors programs,
 so there are many ways for students to graduate with honors.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 3/1/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































