https://www.memphis.edu/me/program/



 



Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs - 
 	Mechanical Engineering
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Mechanical Engineering
 	








Programs
Students
Faculty
Research
News
Accreditation









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















ME Program





 Undergraduate ProgramApply Now!


 Graduate ProgramApply Now!


ME Degrees Offered

Rankings




Take Action



Herff College of Engineering
Contact Us
Apply to Our Undergraduate Program
Apply to Our Graduate Program








Home

 	Mechanical Engineering
 	

 	ME Program
 	

Graduate Program 
The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers courses of study that lead to the
 Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering degree and to the PhD in Engineering with
 a concentration in Mechanical Engineering degree.
 
Apply Now for Graduate Admission!  
 
MECH Graduate Handbook
MECH Graduate Degree Requirement (from the graduate catalog)MECH Graduate Assistantships
Herff Graduate FellowshipsHerff Post-Doctoral Fellowships
For more information please contact the Department Graduate Program Coordinator, Dr. Ranganathan Gopalakrishnan.
ADMISSION PROCEDURES: For admission into a degree program, applicants should allow a reasonable amount
 of time for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program
 and Graduate Admissions (approximately three to six weeks). International applicants
 should allow at least four months for the application process. Applicants are urged
 to apply early to ensure full consideration.
 
All determinations concerning the classification of a student as in-state or out-of-state
 for fee purposes are made in the Graduate Admission office. If, for any reason, there
 is a question about a state residency classification, the student is responsible for
 requesting a review of his/her residency status BEFORE classes begin. Complete an
 Application for Residency Classification and submit it to Graduate Admissions (FedEx
 Institute of Technology Building, Suite 201) for review.
 
Application for Residency Classification
Guidelines for Classification of Students for Fee Paying Purposes
All admission credentials become the property of the University and will not be forwarded
 or returned. Credentials will be maintained in active files for 12 months, after which
 they will be destroyed.
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST: 
 
To complete the Mechanical Engineering Graduate Application you need to be ready to:
 
1) Submit your CV or Resume, Statement or Letter of Purpose.
2) Supply e-mail addresses and telephone numbers for three recommenders who will be
 automatically notified to send letters of recommendation after the recommendation
 request is saved in your application.
 
3) Report your test scores (GRE or TOEFL).
4) List all other colleges/universities attended with dates, degrees, majors, and
 GPAs (you will be asked to request official transcripts). If credentials are not in
 English, they are required to be evaluated course-by-course by any credentialing agency
 listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site; see Admission of International Students.
 
DEADLINE:
In order to expedite the processing of your application, you are strongly encouraged
 to adhere to the timeline provided below:
 
For Domestic Applicants and International Applicants currently in the U.S., the Application
 Deadline and File Completion Deadline for Fall semester are July 1 and August 1, for
 Spring semester are December 1 and January 1, and for Summer semester are May 1 and
 June 1.
 
*Note: Domestic Applicants, applying for readmission, who left the University of Memphis
 on suspension must be fully readmitted by the following dates:
Fall - August 1
Spring - January 1
Summer - May 1
At the University of Memphis, the deadline for scholarship consideration is December
 1 for admitted students. Therefore, if you believe you may be scholarship eligible,
 you are strongly encouraged to submit your application before November 1 of the year
 before your enrollment. To discover for yourself if you may be scholarship eligible,
 please check the Scholarship Office web site.
 
International Applicants NOT in the U.S. (first time F1 visa holders) are encouraged
 to apply for Fall or Spring admission. The Application Deadline and File Completion
 Deadline for Fall semester are May 1 and July 1, and for Spring semester are September
 1 and October 15.
 
Additional deadlines all applicants should be aware of include:

Submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Submission of On-Campus Housing Application
Registration Calendars
Fee Payment

Undergraduate Program
The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers an undergraduate program leading to
 a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering.
 
Program Educational Objectives
Student Outcomes
B S in Mechanical Engineering Program Description and Degree Requirement
B S in Mechanical Engineering Course Descriptions
B S in Mechanical Engineering Degree Planning Sheet and Program Flow Chart
Honors Program
The Mechanical Engineering Honors Program provides an exceptional educational opportunity for highly motivated students to
 develop their talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculum designed to encourage
 independence and creativity.
 
ADMISSION: Incoming freshmen who score a minimum of 26 on the ACT or its equivalent are invited
 to participate. Transfer students or students previously enrolled at The University
 of Memphis are eligible for the program if they have an overall grade point average
 of 3.00 and a grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the Herff College
 of Engineering. The departmental honors committee admits eligible students to the
 program upon approval of the Application for Admission to the Mechanical Engineering
 Honors Program. Students with academic records that fall short of these requirements
 may apply for provisional acceptance.  Contact the Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate
 Coordinator for more information.  Applications can be downloaded here.
 

RETENTION: Participants must maintain a minimum overall grade point average of 3.00 and a minimum
 grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the college to continue in the
 program. The departmental honors committee may grant participants failing to meet
 this requirement a one semester probationary period before they are dismissed from
 the program.
 
REQUIREMENTS: 
 
1)  To qualify for the designation With Honors in Mechanical Engineering, a   student must successfully complete a minimum of 18 semester hours from the following:
 1) MECH 4395 and MECH 4396, and 2) 12 credits of mechanical engineering honors courses.
 
2) To qualify for the designations With Honors in Mechanical Engineering and University Honors With Thesis, a student must successfully complete a minimum of 24 semester hours from the following:
 1) MECH 4395 and MECH 4396, 2) 9 credits of mechanical engineering honors courses,
 3) UNHP1101 or UNHP 1102, and 4)  6 credits of general education honors courses.
 
Honors sections of both lower and upper division mechanical engineering courses are
 offered regularly and are included in the Class Schedule. To  enroll in mechanical engineering honors sections, student must request departmental
 approval. A minimum grade of “B” is required in each honors course for it to count
 toward fulfilling the honors course requirement, but regular credit for the course
 will be earned if the grade is lower than a “B”.  A participant must select a major
 advisor by the beginning of the first semester senior year and enroll in MECH 4395,
 Honors Thesis Proposal. Successful completion of this course requires acceptance of
 a thesis proposal by the departmental honors committee. During the second semester
 of the senior year a participant must enroll in MECH 4396, Honors Thesis. Successful
 completion of this course requires acceptance of a thesis by the departmental honors
 committee.
 
DESIGNATION:  Students successfully completing the prescribed course work will have earned the
 designation of With Honors in Mechanical Engineering. This designation will be recognized at the commencement ceremony and it will appear
 on the transcript and diploma.
 














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/19/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































