https://www.memphis.edu/art/programs/bfa_studioarts.php



 



BFA in Studio Arts - 
 	Department of Art
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Art
 	







About
Programs
People
Facilities
Resources
News/Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 Undergraduate

Art Education (BFA)

Art History (BA)

Fashion Design (BA)

Fashion Merchandising (BA)

Foundation Studies

Graphic Design (BFA)

Photography (BFA)

Studio Arts (BFA)

Visual Arts (BA)


 GraduateArt Education (MAT)Art History (MA)Ceramics (MFA)Graphic Design (MFA)Painting (MFA)Photography (MFA)Printmaking (MFA)Sculpture (MFA)


 CertificatesGraphic DesignMuseum Studies


Course Catalog




Take Action



Apply to the UofM
Art Appreciation
Support the College
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebook




Home

 	Department of Art
 	

 	Programs
 	BFA in Studio Arts

Art – Studio Arts, B.F.A.

Painting
Painting at the U of M is taught within the broader cultural, historical, and contemporary
 context in which art is made and experienced. Within this context, our undergraduate
 and graduate students have a rigorous experience in the discipline of painting. Instruction
 in oil, acrylic, watercolor, and other media, as well as opportunities for mixed media
 exploration with other areas, is combined with an investigation and discussion of
 art theory and contemporary issues. Small classes allow students to develop personal
 interests, aesthetics, and thinking skills. Our faculty and visiting artists provide
 both group and individual attention through lectures, demonstrations, discussions,
 and critiques.
 
Students are introduced to a variety of techniques and principles about the nature
 of painting with the intention of encouraging individual exploration. Undergraduate
 painting students are required to take courses in the other fine art concentrations.
 Because contemporary art frequently takes the form of multimedia works, painting students
 often create works that incorporate other art media such as collage, photography,
 drawing, sculpture, digital imagery, and installation.
 


Printmaking
The undergraduate printmaking program at the U of M exposes students to a concentrated
 fine art program of both practice and theory designed to provide the foundation for
 later independent exploration and artistic development. We believe that it is fundamentally
 important — intellectually, conceptually, and technically — that undergraduate students
 have a comprehensive educational experience. The size of the department guarantees
 an exposure to many ideas and stylistic approaches, while flexibility within our curriculum
 allows for personal direction and development. In-depth exploration in a variety of
 media and technical training enables students to become skilled in crafting and presenting
 work. Classroom discussions provide the opportunity to examine a range of contemporary,
 theoretical, and historical issues that enable the understanding of artwork with a
 broad context.
 
The printmaking studios are well equipped for specialized and cross-disciplinary focus
 in all of the traditional processes including woodcut, metal-plate intaglio, screen
 printing, lithography, and alternative process photo methods. Hand-worked and photographically-developed
 approaches are instructed in all media and digitally-produced images are fully explored.
 Intermediate classes explore these processes in-depth with an emphasis on understanding
 the relationship of technique and concept.
 
Advanced courses in printmaking focus on new technology as it relates to traditional
 print processes. In addition, students are encouraged to combine and interchange the
 various printmaking processes.
 


Sculpture
In the 3-D areas, students discover the broad scope of form in space. They explore
 a variety of means through which ideas and inspiration are conceptualized in sculpture
 and ceramics. Contemporary trends and evaluations of artistic development are woven
 into class projects.
 
Assignments challenge creativity as well as provide a basic understanding of the different
 tools, materials, and techniques which are used to communicate through three-dimensional
 form. Undergraduates share and interact with graduate students in large studios which
 are equipped for welding metals, modeling and firing works in clay, casting in permanent
 materials, and constructing in wood.
 
The horizons of sculpture have grown to include different kinds of art production,
 resulting in a broadening of aesthetic concepts. In response to contemporary trends,
 sculpture as an art form is redefining itself to include environments, installations,
 and new media. Our graduate and undergraduate sculpture programs are designed to encourage
 the exploration of the broadest possibilities of individual expression as well as
 the investigation and understanding of contemporary art issues. Students are challenged
 to excel in their production and in the articulation of concepts and concerns that
 affect and form their work.
 


Ceramics
In Ceramics, students learn new and traditional techniques in clay and glaze technology,
 expanding their knowledge in the use of clay, glaze, and slips in the building and
 decorating of pottery and ceramic sculpture. The use of gas and electric kilns, and
 other equipment, are included in the program.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/28/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































