https://www.memphis.edu/csd/programs/audamissions.php



 



Au.D. Admissions - 
 	School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	 - The University of Memphis
 



























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	








About
Programs
People
Research Areas
Student Orgs
Resources
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 MA in SLPAdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals


 AuD in Audiology

Admissions

Curriculum

Non-CSD Coursework

Clinical Education

Additional Information

Apply Now

AuD Program Description

AuD Program Goals

AuD Specialization Tracks

AuD-PhD Program

Dual AuD-MPH Program


 PhD in CSDAdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals


 American Sign LanguageASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL CoursesASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL?


 Graduate CertificatesAACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology


 Continuing EducationAAC Workshop


Diversity




Take Action



Apply Now
Support the School
Memphis Speech and Hearing Center
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitter




Home

 	School of Communication Sciences and Disorders
 	

 	Programs
 	Au.D. Admissions 

Admissions
The Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) degree requires a four-year post-baccalaureate program
 of study that includes 99 credit hours partitioned across both academic and clinical
 practicum courses. Additional coursework may be required depending on your academic
 and/or clinical background to fulfill all program requirements.
 
For admission to the 2022 Doctor of Audiology (AUD) degree program the School of Communication
 Sciences and Disorders, students are required to submit an application to the Communication
 Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS).
 
Admission to the Doctor of Audiology program occurs only once per calendar year. Students
 must have a bachelor's degree conferred by Spring to be considered for admission for
 the 2022 class.All application materials should be received and verified by February 1, 2022 for
 the Fall 2022 admissions class.
 
We encourage students with backgrounds other than Communication Disorders to apply.
 Courses are available during the program which will allow you to make up required
 undergraduate courses in Communication Sciences and Disorders including 3 semester
 hours each of language development and language disorders.
 
We have no set thresholds for GRE or GPA scores. For applicants who take the GRE more
 than once, we consider the highest set of scores. The average GRE scores for students
 most recently accepted in the program were 305 (verbal: 154, quantitative: 151; writing
 4.2) and the average GPA score (all four years of the undergraduate degree) was 3.72
 (4 point scale). For more information about our program statistics locate the University of Memphis listing on ASHA's EdFind.
 
Our AuD program assumes that students have basic coursework in the biological, physical,
 mathematical (statistics is preferred), and social/behavioral sciences by the time
 of graduation. These courses should be completed at the undergraduate level and reflect
 preparation for graduate study in audiology. In the CSDCAS portal, this coursework
 is listed as "prerequisites" so that we can track what undergraduate coursework you
 have, but these courses are not required for admission. You are encouraged to complete
 this coursework prior to your first semester of graduate school, but they don't have
 to be completed until you graduate.
 


Apply Now to our Au.D. Program
If you have specific questions about the application process, contact:
admissionscsd@memphis.edu
For additional information about the AuD program contact:
Lisa Lucks Mendel, Ph.D.,Associate Dean of Graduate Studies901.678.5800lmendel@memphis.edu
Tours
In order to protect the health of prospective students and our faculty and staff,
 we are offering a limited number of in-person tours that will be capped at no more
 than 5 participants who will need to be masked. Due to the limitations on our tour
 sizes, we can only allow prospective students to participate in walking tours at this
 time. There will be 2 in-person tours available on each of the following dates:
 

August 13
September 10
October 8
November 12
December 10

The first tour will start at 11 a.m. and will meet in the building lobby. The second
 tour will start at 11:45 a.m. in Community Health Building, Room 2042B.
 
For those who are not able to attend an in-person tour, we are offering Virtual Open
 Houses of the program that will feature an opportunity to learn about the admissions
 process and speak with current faculty and students. There is no cap on participants
 for the Virtual Open Houses. All Virtual Open Houses for Fall 2021 will start at 11:45
 a.m. (CST). They are held on the same dates as the tours.
 
Please email us to reserve your spot on one of our upcoming tours or to attend a Virtual Open House.
 
We encourage prospective students to view our virtual tour and connect with us on Facebook or Twitter to learn more about events and programs happening in the School and Clinic. We can
 answer your questions via email as well.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 8/11/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































