https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/faq.php



 



Admissions Frequently Asked Questions - 
 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	








Important Announcements
Freshmen
Transfer
Readmit
Non-Degree
International
High School
Graduate
FAQ
Virtual Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Meet Our Staff
#MEMBOUND?
Campus Visits and Events
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutube




Home

 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	Admissions Frequently Asked Questions



Frequently Asked Questions
What is the mailing address for the Office of Admissions?
I have a copies of documents that have been requested by the Office of Admissions. 
 Can I submit these copies to continue my admission process?
Must I readmit if I sat out a semester?
How can I find out which courses, taken at my former college, will transfer?
I received a letter requiring me to show that I have registered for Selective Service;
 however, I am not eligible yet.  What should I do?
How long will it take for my admission application to be processed?
What are the driving directions to the University of Memphis and location of the Office
 of Admissions?
How soon will I know if I’ve been accepted to the University of Memphis?
When I check my application status online, I see that I have incomplete items. What
 does this mean and how can I find out what items are incomplete?
I just realized that I submitted my online application with an error. Is there any
 way I can correct this error online?
I receive correspondence from the Office of Admissions via e-mail and regular mail. 
 Why don’t you send all correspondence via e-mail?

 What is the mailing address for the Office of Admissions?University of MemphisOffice of Admissions101 Wilder TowerMemphis, TN 38152-3520 I have copies of documents that have been requested by the Office of Admissions. 
 Can I submit these copies to continue my admission process?The Office of Admissions requires official documentation for application processing. 
 Documents are considered official only if sent directly from the issuing institution. 
 College entrance examination scores (SAT/ACT) will be considered official if they
 appear on an official high school transcript.  Personal copies of requested documentation
 cannot be accepted.  Please see Admission Requirements for more information Must I readmit if I sat out a semester?Students who have sat out one regular semester (fall or spring) must be readmitted
 to the University.  How can I find out which courses, taken at my former college, may transfer?Please refer to the online transfer equivalency tables to determine which courses may transfer.  If you do not find your institution listed you may wish to contact the
 Office of Admissions at (901) 678-2111 for more information. I received a letter requiring me to show that I have registered for Selective Service;
 however, I am not eligible yet.  What should I do?You may still be admitted without this information, however, when you become eligible
 and complete your registration for Selective Service, please notify our office. How long will it take for my admission application to be processed?Once you apply online, please allow 2-3 business days for your application to be processed. 
 After we receive all of the required supporting documents, an admission decision will
 be made and you will be notified by mail and e-mail. What are the driving directions to the University of Memphis and location of the
 Office of Admissions?Please see the Visit the Campus page for information on directions, campus map, parking, and arranging a tour.  The Office of Admissions is located in Room 101 of Wilder
 Tower.  Wilder Tower is located near the intersection of Patterson and Walker Streets. 
 How soon will I know if I’ve been accepted to the University of Memphis?Only after all outstanding items are received can an admissions decision be made.
 The University of Memphis requires official documents to make an admissions decision.
 Please monitor your e-mail (or regular mail) for notification of what outstanding
 items are needed to continue processing your application. Decisions regarding graduate
 programs may take a little longer than undergraduate due to the cooperative efforts
 between the academic department and the Office of Admissions.
 
 When I check my application status online, I see that I have incomplete items. What
 does this mean and how can I find out what items are incomplete?When you submitted your application, several of the responses automatically triggered
 additional requests. For example, if you are male between 18-26, you will be asked
 to verify registration with Selective Service and/or if you indicated that you’ve
 earned college credit from another accredited institution of higher education, you
 will be asked to have an official transcript submitted for evaluation, etc…. You will
 be notified what, if any, items are outstanding after an analyst has reviewed your
 application – this may take 2-3 business days.
 
 I just realized that I submitted my online application with an error. Is there any
 way I can correct this error online?No. Once an online application has been submitted, changes can only be made by an
 admissions analyst. Please contact the Office of Admissions to request the correction.
 
 I receive correspondence from the Office of Admissions via e-mail and regular mail. 
 Why don’t you send all correspondence via e-mail? The Office of Admissions has a complex communication system that utilizes both e-mail
 (personal and official UofM) and regular mail. E-mail is the preferred method for
 corresponding with applicants. If you provided an e-mail address on the application
 for admission, we will communicate with you at that address.  If you are accepted,
 instructions for setting up your UofM e-mail account will be provided with your official
 acceptance letter (e-mail). It is important that you set up your UofM e-mail account.
 From this point forward, all correspondence will be sent to your official UofM e-mail
 account.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































