https://www.memphis.edu/art/programs/bfa_graphicdesign.php



 



BFA in Graphic Design - 
 	Department of Art
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Art
 	







About
Programs
People
Facilities
Resources
News/Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 Undergraduate

Art Education (BFA)

Art History (BA)

Fashion Design (BA)

Fashion Merchandising (BA)

Foundation Studies

Graphic Design (BFA)

Photography (BFA)

Studio Arts (BFA)

Visual Arts (BA)


 GraduateArt Education (MAT)Art History (MA)Ceramics (MFA)Graphic Design (MFA)Painting (MFA)Photography (MFA)Printmaking (MFA)Sculpture (MFA)


 CertificatesGraphic DesignMuseum Studies


Course Catalog




Take Action



Apply to the UofM
Art Appreciation
Support the College
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebook




Home

 	Department of Art
 	

 	Programs
 	BFA in Graphic Design


Art – Graphic Design, B.F.A.
Graphic designers shape our visual environment, combining words and images into messages
 that inform, persuade, sell, and entertain. It's a field that combines art and technology
 with business and culture. Designers create work that is useful and responds directly
 to the needs of others. The limitations of an assignment, defined by purpose, audience,
 and budget, are seen as challenges rather than barriers to the imagination.
 
Our faculty and students are enthusiastic about the role graphic designers play in
 our increasingly visual environment. The graphic design curriculum covers key aspects
 of design and visual communication for both the print and digital environment. Instruction
 in the fundamental concepts of visual communication, current graphic computer applications,
 methods of developing creative solutions which give meaningful form to ideas and information,
 and business practices, develop the skills and knowledge necessary for practical application.
 At the same time questions about the nature of visual communication are asked.
 
Why do we notice and interpret the things we see in a particular way?
How does our culture affect our perception?
How does graphic design fit into the social and economic world?
Who are the innovators in the field? What is creativity?
What are a designer's responsibilities to self, to the client, to the community?
Students learn to create visually intriguing answers to intellectually challenging
 problems, guided by faculty experienced in both design education and professional
 practice, who have a diversity of interests, styles, and specializations within the
 field. Faculty are interested in helping students define an individual direction,
 and offer not only instruction, but also guidance, encouragement, and the benefit
 of their personal experience. The Department of Art has excellent computer labs with
 complete image generation, typography, and multimedia capabilities, using current
 industry standards in software and hardware, scanners, and printers.
 
Change is a constant in graphic design, as technology and modes of communication evolve.
 The curriculum at The University of Memphis is constantly evolving as well to keep
 abreast of these changes and to prepare students to enter the profession with current
 knowledge and skills.
 
ENTRANCE AND DEGREE REQUIREMENTS
The Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a concentration in graphic design requires a
 minimum of 120 semester hours. All applicants seeking admission to the graphic design
 concentration must complete the Incoming Evaluation for Graphic Design before enrolling
 in any graphic design course. In the sophomore year of study, students submit portfolios
 for entrance to the Graphic Design Concentration. Enrollment in 3000 and 4000 level
 graphic design courses is based upon this review.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/28/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































