https://www.memphis.edu/uofmglobal/



 



UofM Global Online Degrees - 
 	UofM Global
 	 - The University of Memphis
 















Your browser does not support JavaScript!

Your browser does not support JavaScript!




















Skip to main content










 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >

















 eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us 



Request Info Apply Now



 eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us 
Request Info Apply Now

 About UofM Global 
Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us

 Degrees & Programs 
Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses

 Admissions 
Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees

 Current Students 
Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation








Online on your time.


Create the future you want. Apply today   >




The University of Memphis

Home UofM Global




Nationally RankedPrograms


With 20+ years of experience offering online education, the UofM Global offers top-ranked programs in a variety of fields. To get started, choose an area of study, then select the program that best fits your career goals.

 Choose an area of study

Arts
Business
Computing
Education
Engineering
Health Professions
Humanities
Liberal Studies
Social Science












Earn your degree 100% online from the accredited, nationally-recognized University of Memphis.

You're busy, but want to go further in life. You no longer have to choose between raising a family and advancing your career. Balance school and life with UofM Global. We give you a path to a better future, and it's 100% online and on your time. With 100+ degree programs, you can discover your passion and pursue your purpose.
Explore Our Programs








Anytime, Anywhere
Make any room a classroom with the flexibility of the UofM Global experience. With UofM Global, earning your degree is as accessible as connecting to wi-fi.


Accredited
Our fully-accredited programs are created by UofM faculty for UofM students. You complete the same rigorous work and earn the same diploma as on-campus students.


Affordable
No confusing tuition structure. UofM Global offers fully-online students affordable and competitive tuition and financial aid.


Student Support
We provide 24/7 online tutoring, academic support services, a dedicated admissions team and more. Curious what an online program looks like? Try our College Prep course for free!









Education beyond boundaries
Our online student body is made up of passionate individuals from around the world. We take great pride in knowing that our accredited programs are sought after locally, across the country and internationally. We strive to deliver an online college experience that is competitive and available to all.






Pursue Your Passion with UofM Global
Choose a degree program and take the next step in your career

 
Arts

 
Business

 
Computing

 
Education



 
Engineering

 
Health

 
Humanities

 
Liberal Studies



 
Social Science

 
View All Programs





A Program Designed for Professionals


Credit forPrior Learning

Experiential Learning Credit
Convert your previous work/life experienceand transfer credits to ELCto save time and money
Learn More


CorporatePartners

Current Partnerships
FedEx: LiFEMethodist Le Bonheur: MAAPMemphis City: COMPETE | RISE
Learn More


ContactUs

Questions?
Our team can help!
Contact Us













About UofM Global


Learn More
Ranked Online Degrees
Accreditations
Contact Us



Degrees and Programs


Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Certificates
Corporate Partners
Complimentary Courses





Admissions


Apply Now
Request Info
Financial Aid
Tuition & Fees


Contact Us
Tuition
Financial Aid


Students


Student Services & Support
SmartStart
Learning Support
Technology Support
Advising
Register for Courses
Experiential Learning Credit
Graduation




 












Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice


Last Updated: 12/10/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. 

 






























