https://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/programs/index.php



 



Programs - 
 	Fogelman College of Business & Economics
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Fogelman College of Business & Economics
 	








About
Programs
Students
Departments
Faculty & Staff
Research
Brochures & News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 DepartmentsSchool of AccountancyDepartment of EconomicsDepartment of Finance, Insurance, and Real EstateDepartment of ManagementDepartment of Business Information & TechnologyDepartment of Marketing and Supply Chain Management


 MBA ProgramsIntroductionOnline MBAProfessional MBA


 Specialized Master's ProgramsIntroductionMS in AccountingMA in EconomicsMS in Information SystemsMSBA in Finance


Certificates

Doctoral Programs

Course Syllabi




Take Action



Apply to our Undergraduate Programs
Apply to our Masters Programs
Apply to our Doctoral Programs
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	Fogelman College of Business & Economics
 	

 	Programs
 	


Academic Programs
At the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, we offer a variety of undergraduate
 and graduate degree programs.  They are offered in traditional classroom setting,
 day or evening, and online formats.  You can find the area of study that best suits
 your schedule, lifestyle, and goals.
 
We are accredited by the AACSB – the gold standard in business schools achievement,
 an honor earned by less than 5% of business schools world-wide.
 
Undergraduate Programs
Our undergraduate degree programs provide a learning environment that fosters scholarship,
 intellectual curiosity, and collegiality. Our mission is to prepare students for meaningful
 and responsible participation in a broad range of career opportunities in business,
 government, and institutional settings, or for advanced professional or graduate education.
 We are dedicated to helping students acquire the competencies and attitudes for a
 lifetime of learning as they face the challenges of the future.
 
FCBE is composed of six departments: 

 Crews School of Accountancy
Department of Business Information & Technology (Formerly MIS)
 
Department of Economics
Department of Finance, Insurance & Real Estate
Department of Management
Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management

FCBE provides multiple options of majors and minors.
 
UofM Global - Online Business Programs
We are proud to offer a large selection of fully online undergraduate and graduate degree programs.
 

Accountancy
Business Information and Technology
Real Estate
Professional Real Estate Certificate
Business Finance
Management
Marketing Management
Master of Business Administration    

MBA Programs
We are proud to provide these different tracks to earn a MBA degree all of which are
 designed to meet your unique needs.
 

Professional MBA - Flexible, part-time program composed of evening classes to accommodate full-time,
 working professionals.
 
Online MBA - Award-winning, online program, designed for professionals whose demanding schedules
 make it difficult to attend classes in person.
*Graduates of the IMBA program receive an International MBA degree. Graduates of all
 the other MBA tracks earn a Master of Business Administration degree.
  
 

Specialized Master's Programs
At the Fogelman College, we also offer four specialized master's degrees for students
 wanting to gain advanced knowledge in a particular field. Unlike a MBA degree, which
 is a general master's degree, these programs allow you the opportunity to concentrate
 your studies in chosen area of specialty.
 

MA in Economics
MS in Accounting
MS in Information Systems (formerly MSBA in MIS)
 
MSBA in Finance  

Doctoral Programs
The Ph.D. program at the Fogelman College offers a wide variety of opportunities for
 students interested in furthering their graduate education. The Doctor of Philosophy
 degree in Business Administration is a basic requirement for individuals interested
 in academic careers at many colleges and universities. Earn a Ph.D. in any of our
 six areas of study. 
 
Certificate Programs
Certificate programs are offered to enhance the professional competencies in specialized areas of business.
 
 
Important Contacts
Undergraduate Student Services Office; 901.678.2855 | emailGraduate Student Services Office; 901.678.3721 | emailPh.D. Admissions & Retention Coordinator's Office; 901.678.5250 | email













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 5/25/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































