https://www.memphis.edu/theatre/academicprograms/bfadance.php



 



Theatre Dance Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) Degree - 
 	Theatre & Dance
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Theatre & Dance
 	







About
Academic Programs
Admissions
People
Production Archives
Purchase Tickets
Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Academic Programs





 Undergraduate BFA

About the BFA

Performance

Musical Theatre

Design/Technical Production

Dance

Dance Science


 Graduate MFAAbout the MFAMFA CurriculumScholarshipsApplication Process





Take Action



2021-2022 Season
Prospective Students
Watch Me – Theatre Video
UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation




Follow Us On Social Media
InstagramFacebook




Home

 	Theatre & Dance
 	

 	Programs
 	Theatre Dance Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) Degree


About the BFA
The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in Theatre with a concentration in dance is equivalent
 to a degree in dance. The degree provides a comprehensive education across the field
 of dance, particularly through contemporary and modern techniques. A BFA dance student
 experiences movement practice (Modern, Ballet, Jazz, Tap), performance, choreography,
 dance notation, pedagogy, history, production and technology.
 
The Department of Theatre & Dance values cultural and curricular diversity, and responds
 to the individual needs of each student. Students graduate the program with the proficiency
 and creativity to become leaders, advocates, and artists in the community and professional
 dance field.
 
Performance and Production
There are two fully produced dance concerts each year. One concert features the choreography
 of faculty and guest artists and the other the work of current student choreographers.
 A hallmark of this program is the development of the creative voice of emerging young
 choreographers and performers.
 
BFA candidates are required to participate in one school sponsored performance each
 year. Attendance at weekly Lunchboxes (a series of lectures, workshops and masterclasses
 throughout the academic year) and a GPA of 2.5 or higher throughout each semester.
 
Professional experience
All dance majors gain valuable real-world experience before graduating. Each year,
 students and faculty have the opportunity to attend major conferences, including the
 American College Dance Association and the National Dance Education Organization.
 Students also are required to complete internships to enhance their resumes. In the
 past, dance students have worked with the prestigious American Dance Festival, Complexions
 Contemporary Ballet, Ballet Memphis, Opera Memphis, Retter Entertainment, and have
 served as performers and choreographers for community venues.
 
After graduation
Recent graduates are dancing for New York and Washington D.C. companies as well as
 regional companies in the Southeast and Mid-West, showcasing their own choreography
 and performing in tours. Other graduates continue their training in graduate school.
 
Come visit us
High School Day of Dance: Friday, November 19, 2021High school seniors and juniors interested in pursuing dance in college -- come spend
 "A Day In The Life" of as a UofM Dance major. Take class, observe class, mingle with
 current BFA students at lunch, see current work and talk with student choreographers.
 
Group One from 10 AM to 12 PM
Group Two from 1 to 3 PM
Specific Schedule TBA
Click here to reserve your spot!
 
If you can not join us for High School Day of Dance, please email Jill Guyton Nee
 (jgnee@memphis.edu) to request an alternate date for a more informal visitation. To
 provide you with the best experience we strongly urge you visit on Monday - Friday
 10:00am – 5:00pm when classes are in-session. Please see performance dates for best
 dates to visit both the program and see a concert!
 
Scholarships
The Department of Theatre & Dance has limited scholarship funding. We strongly encourage
 applicants to apply for university scholarships.
 
Most dance talent scholarships are reserved for continuing BFA students who have demonstrated
 extraordinary accomplishment in physical practice, creative activity and/or theoretical
 inquiry. The amount of these awards is generally from $500-full tuition and must be
 applied for annually.
 
Transfer Students
Transfer students are admitted to the program throughout the year, as opportunities
 arise. However, they must follow all of the above procedures, including attendance
 at one of the two departmental auditions.
 
Summary of Curriculum RequirementsGeneral Education Requirements – 41 credit hoursTheatre & Dance Core – 11 creditsDance Technique – 27 credit hoursComposition and Repertory – 9 credit hoursOther Required Dance Courses – 27 credit hoursFree Electives – 5 credit hoursTotal: 120 credit hours
 
UofM Dance in Motion

















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 8/26/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































