https://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/index.php



 



MA in Applied Anthropology - 
 	Department of Anthropology
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Anthropology
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Our Work
Resources
News & Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate Resources





Current Students

Future Students




Take Action



Undergraduates
Join the Graduate Program
Support the Department
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	Department of Anthropology
 	

 	Graduate Majors
 	

Why Study Applied Anthropology at the University of Memphis?
Our nationally-recognized MA Program is one of the oldest Applied Anthropology programs
 in the United States. With award-winning faculty and significant funding and research
 opportunities, our department focuses on training students to apply the theoretical
 and methodological foundations of practicing and applying engaged and collaborative anthropology.
Faculty and students in the Anthropology Department are engaged in individually-run
 and collaborative research projects geared toward understanding and potentially solving
 the complex social problems besetting the region, nation, and world.
 

First year graduate students are also eligible to apply for the Tim Bolding Scholarship in Anthropology.  The application deadline for the Bolding Scholarship is May 1, 2021. 
 


Major Research and Teaching Areas:

Anthropology of Work and Organizations
Anthropology & Development
Environmental Anthropology
Feminist Anthropology
Food Anthropology
Human Rights
Medical Anthropology
Migration, Refugees, & Humanitarianism 
Religion, Identity Politics & Critical Race Studies
Urban Anthropology 
 

Regional Areas of Expertise:

Australia
Central and South America
Europe
Middle East
West Africa
United States

What Makes Our Program Unique?

Nationally Recognized Award Winning Faculty
Theory Driven, Career Focused
In a 2018 survey of 65 alumni, 95% found employment in related fields or were admitted
 to post-MA studies.
 
Vibrant and Active Alumni Network & Community Advisory Board
Funding Available for Graduate Research Assistantships (Full Tuition + Monthly Stipend)
Medical Anthropology Concentration & 3-Year Integrated MA/MPH
Opportunities for graduate certificates in GIS, Non-Profit Management, Gender Studies,
 and Museum Studies
 


A 2018 analysis from US News and World Report lists Anthropologist among the best science jobs.
 

Graduate Program Information
The Department of Anthropology offers one of the nation's leading M.A. programs in
 applied anthropology. Graduate students in our program receive training in core areas
 of theory, research methods, data analysis and application. Our students successfully
 pursue careers in government, nonprofit, and private sectors in healthcare, community
 development, health administration, cultural heritage preservation, and environmental
 management. Our program also prepares students to move on to doctoral study in anthropology
 and other fields.
 
Coordinator of Graduate Studies
Dr. Micah Trapp, mmtrapp@memphis.edu or (901) 678-2080.
 

Medical Anthropology Concentration
Our graduate program also offers a concentration in Medical Anthropology  with topical foci such as health disparities, healthcare systems, and health risk. Dr. Kathryn Hicks serves as the primary contact for this concentration.
 
Pursue Dual Masters Degrees
Graduate students in anthropology can simultaneously pursue a second master's degree
 in a complementary field. To facilitate dual degree paths, up to 20 percent of the
 total combined credits required for the two degree programs can be shared. (Regulations
 can be found in the Graduate Catalog).
 
Students in the Medical Anthropology concentration may also take advantage of a 3-year MA/MPH integrated program.
 
Students interested in Urban Anthropology and Community Development can take advantage
 of a dual degree City and Regional Planning.
 
Interdisciplinary Degrees and Certificates

Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies
Geographic Information Systems Certificate Program
American Humanics Non-profit Administration Program 
 
Women's Studies Certificate
Public Health Degree Programs














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/8/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































