https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/undergraduate/healthcare_lead.php



 



Healthcare Leadership - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate





 DieteticsAboutAdmissionsMissionCurriculumResourcesFAQ


Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences

Health Sciences

Healthcare Leadership

Physical Education Teacher Education

Sport Coaching

Medical Assisting (Minor)

Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor)

Accelerated BS to MS

Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses




Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	Healthcare Leadership

Bachelor's Degree in Healthcare Leadership
 


A UofM Global program
The fully online concentration in Healthcare Leadership (HCL) provides a comprehensive exposure to
 the field of administration and leadership with coursework in areas such as the healthcare
 environment, professionalism, leadership, business skills and communication. The need
 for qualified healthcare administrators with leadership acumen and ethical fitness
 is significant, as these individuals are in great demand within the dynamic and complex
 healthcare landscape. While in the HCL program, you'll have multiple internship opportunities.
 Upon graduation, you be well prepared to pursue more advanced coursework in related
 areas ( e.g., healthcare administration, public health, health promotion).
 
Notable advantages of the healthcare leadership program:

Completely online program for maximum convenience and flexibility
 
Experiential learning credits
Competency-based testing for credit
No time limit on transfer credits
Experienced professors
Certified member Association University Programs of Health Administration (AUPHA)*
 
Ranked #2 Best Online Bachelor's in Healthcare Administration Degree Programs
Engaging and relevant internship opportunities
Great job market upon graduation

Major
Health Studies

Concentration: Healthcare Leadership
Degree: Bachelor of Science (BS)
BS Degree Sheet (subject to change)
 
Courses offered by semester 

Careers
Students graduating with a BS degree with a concentration in Healthcare Leadership
 are well prepared to attend graduate school within the following areas:
 

Master of Science in Health Studies with a concentration in Health Promotion
Master of Public Health
Master of Business Administration
Master in Healthcare Administration

Note: You should seek the guidance of the academic services coordinator, the pre-health
 professional advisor, faculty mentors, and/or the college/school of interest with
 regards to needed prerequisite courses for Graduate School admission.
 
Students are also well prepared to begin employment within the following areas:

Ambulatory care facilities
Long-term healthcare settings
Health maintenance organizations
Medical group practices
Community health settings
Local and federal government health agencies
Pharmaceutical firms
Insurance companies
Hospitals

 
For more info: Pat Travis | wptravis@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

  Download the Healthcare Leadership Brochure

Student Testimonials
"When I was first starting the HCL program at Memphis, I was nervous about the fact
 that all the courses are only offered online.  But this turned out to be a huge bonus
 in and of itself, especially during a pandemic where all the University's courses
 were transferred to online learning only.  The program is extremely organized and
 well thought out in every aspect.  Each course that I took during this program taught
 me a different aspect of healthcare and how each part of healthcare works together.
  To add to this, each professor that I had during my time in this program was knowledgeable,
 approachable, and eager to teach.  While the courses are online, the teachers do an
 exceptional job of presenting the material well and highlighting the main areas of
 focus in each course.  My professors always responded to my emails and questions in
 a timely manner, and I was able to build a good student-teacher relationship with
 each of them.  This program required me to hold myself responsible for not only completing
 my assignments on time but to also hold myself accountable for making the time and
 creating a schedule where I could read my textbooks and other resources provided by
 each professor to truly learn and prepare myself for the future I hope to have as
 a healthcare administrative professional." - Alexandra Rathbun, BS
"The healthcare leadership program allowed me to find my true passion within the healthcare
 field from the abundance of courses focusing on leadership, management, business dexterities,
 communication, informatics and the environment itself. The online class environment
 enabled me to create my own schedule and exercise great time management. The faculty
 is one of the best parts as I have adored each and every professor I have crossed
 paths with. The Healthcare Leadership program is what now has led me to landing my
 first internship with Methodist Healthcare and I am eager to see just where the knowledge
 I've gained takes me." - Camryn Palmer, BS
"I came into college not really knowing what I wanted to do, just that I wanted something
 healthcare related. I really love the Healthcare Leadership program because I still
 have so many different career options after graduation. Having my classes online gives
 me the freedom and flexibility I need, while still getting a great education. My professors
 are easily accessible and always very helpful. I have no doubt that healthcare leadership
 was the right program for me." - Alyssa Bolin, BS

*Why AUPHA Certification Matters
You can be assured that you’ll receive a top-notch education that is relevant in today’s
 healthcare industry when you study healthcare leadership at the UofM College of Health
 Sciences. Our program has been awarded certification and membership into the Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AUPHA).
 
This membership is for programs with focuses in healthcare management that are of
 the highest standards.  Their goal is to create a consistent standard for the best
 healthcare management education. This standard is attractive to employers as they
 are confident in the quality and competence of AUPHA certified programs, and therefore,
 excellent for your career prospects.
 
This elite group of AUPHA members includes health management programs in the U.S.
 and around the world who share a commitment to excellence in health management education.
 We are proud to be the only AUPHA certified program in Tennessee, Mississippi or Arkansas
 and one of only fourteen in the entire Southeast United States.
 
» 'Watch Why AUPHA Matters' video

A casual conversation with the Healthcare Leadership faculty about the program:














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/23/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































