https://www.memphis.edu/msci/research/stat.php



 



Applied Statistics - 
 	Math Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 






























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Mathematical Sciences
 	








About
People
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Research





Applied Statistics

CLION

Combinatorics

Computational Analysis

Differential Equations

Ergodic Theory

Functional Analysis

Math Education

Current Grants




Take Action



Student FAQ
Cantor Sect
Contact Us








Home

 	Math Sciences
 	

 	Research
 	Applied Statistics



Applied Statistics Group
Main Focus of Research Interests

Statistical analysis of microarray data, and DNA sequence using Bayesian, meta-analytic
 and semi-parametric procedures
 
Bioinformatics
Large scale computer simulation
Modeling and analysis of clustered discrete data with applications to teratology and
 developmental toxicity studies
 
Statistical risk assessments based on clustered data
Random number generation
Design of experiment
Cryptography
Nonparametric and Semiparametric Statistics

Research Focus and Collaboration
The focus of our research is statistical applications. As such our faculty collaborate
 extensively with research groups within the university: faculty from Biology and Computer
 Sciences Departments, the College of Education, the School of Public Health, the College
 of Engineering, and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. We stress the
 importance of graduate students' participation in faculty research and collaboration.
 To ensure that our graduate students get training in analyzing real life data, we
 have an established internship program for PhD students with the Department of Biostatistics
 at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and occasionally with the University of Tennessee
 Health Sciences Center. Our graduate students also get practical experience through
 graduate assistantship support from other departments as needed.
 
Seminars
The group holds regular research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate
 students. Our statistics group and members of the biostatistics faculty from the St.
 Jude Children's Research Hospital form the backbone of the West Tennessee Chapter
 of the American Statistical Association (WTASA), an organization whose membership
 includes faculty and graduate students from the School of Public Health, and the University
 of Tennessee Health Sciences Center. The WTASA holds monthly meetings and seminars.
 
Recommended Courses
In addition to foundation courses in the theory of probability and statistical inference,
 we encourage every student to take courses in Bayesian Inference, Stochastic Processes,
 Linear, Generalized Linear and Non-linear Models, Design of Experiments, Statistical
 Computing, Statistical Programming in R and SAS.
 
Research Conferences
PhD students are encouraged to attend various conferences in their research areas.
 This is in addition to the conferences and seminars frequently hosted by the Department.
 Usually, graduate students presenting at conferences get some funding for travel,
 hotel and meals.
 
Job Placement
We have a most impressive record of placement of PhD students. Practically all our
 Masters and PhD graduates obtain employment in universities, industries, colleges
 or high schools. These include those who are currently employed at top institutions
 such as Universities of Florida, Maryland, Chicago and Tennessee. Some others have
 achieved executive positions in pharmaceutical, insurance, and financial industries.
 Among our masters graduates are heads of department in some of the top private high
 schools in Memphis.
 
Summer Funding
Summer funding may be available for some advanced PhD students.
Editorial Activities
Our faculty provide editorial services to top journals that include the Journal of the American Statistical Association, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Biometrika, Biometrics, Technometrics, Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference, Journal of Computational Statistics and Graphical Statistics, Statistics in Medicine, Annals of Statistics, and Annals of Statistical Mathematics and Bioinformatics.
 
Members
Below are research interest and two representative or recent publications from each
 member.
 

Dale Bowman, Assistant Professor Research Interests: Applied statistics
 

On the Exact Correlation Structure of Exchangeable Multinomial Outcomes, with E.O.
 George, submitted to Biometrics (2013).
 
Regression Models for Analyzing Clustered Binary and Continuous Outcomes under an
 Assumption of Exchangeability, Analysis of Mixed Data: Methods & Applications, Chapman & Hall/CRC Press, with E.O. George and Q. An (2013).
 
Bowman, D. and George E.O. 2018, A Bayesian analysis of clustered discrete and continuous
 outcomes, Journal of Applied Statistics, 45, 438-449, DOI 10.1080/02664763.2017.1280003, Bowman, D. and George, E.O. (2018).
 
Secure and Fast Encryption (SAFE) with classical random number generators, ACM Transactions
 on Mathematical Software, 44 (4):45:1-45:17, Deng, L.Y., Shiau, J.J., Lu, H.H.S. and
 Bowman, D. (2018).
 


Su Chen, Assistant Professor Research Interests: Non-parametric and semi-parametric statistics and applied statistics
 

Chen, S. and Pokojovy, M. Modern and classical k-sample omnibus tests, Wiley Interdisciplinary
 Reviews: Computational Statistics (2018), e1418:1-12.
 
Chen, S. Optimal Bandwidth Selection for Kernel Density Functionals Estimation, Journal
 of Probability and Statistics (2015), Vol 2015: 1-21.
 


Lih-Yuan Deng, Professor Research Interests: Random number generation and simulation
 

Efficient computer search of large-order multiple recursive generators for pseudo-random
 number generators, Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 236, 3228-3237, with Shiau, J.J. H. and Lu, H. H. S. (2012).
 
Large-order multiple recursive generators with modulus 231−1, INFORMS Journal on Computing, 24(4), 636-647, with Shiau, J.J. H. and Lu, H. H. S. (2012).
 


E. Olúṣẹ́gun George, Professor; Graduate Coordinator (Statistics) Research Interests: Modeling and analysis of clustered data, Bayesian procedures in bioinformatics and
 meta-analysis
 

An Empirical Bayes Approach for Analysis of Diverse Periodic Trends in Time Course
 Gene Expression Data, Bioinformatics, 29, 182-188. with M. Kocak, S. Pyne, and S. Pounds, (2013).
 
On the Use of Stochastic Ordering to Test for Trend with Clustered Binary Data, Biometrika, 95-108, with A. Szabo, (2010).
 


Ching-Chi Yang, Assistant ProfessorResearch Interests: Industrial and engineering statistics, dimensional analysis, response surface methodology,
 and data mining
 

Ching-Chi Yang & Dennis K. J. Lin. Stochastic lead time with order crossover, Quality
 Technology & Quantitative Management, 16:5, 575-587 (2019).
 
Ching-Chi Yang & Dennis K. J. Lin. A Note on Selection of Basis Quantities for Dimensional
 Analysis (submitted for publication)
 
Ching-Chi Yang, Le Bao, Yunji Zhang, Dennis Lin, & Fuqing Zhang. Using a Bayesian
 Model Averaging Method to Improve Consensus Forecasts of Tropical Cyclone Tracks (under
 preparation)
 














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 2/21/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































