https://www.memphis.edu/uofmglobal/admissions/index.php



 



Online Admissions Process - 
 	UofM Global
 	 - The University of Memphis
 















Your browser does not support JavaScript!

Your browser does not support JavaScript!




















Skip to main content










 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >

















 eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us 



Request Info Apply Now



 eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us 
Request Info Apply Now

 About UofM Global 
Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us

 Degrees & Programs 
Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses

 Admissions 
Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees

 Current Students 
Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation









Home
 	UofM Global
 	
 	Online Admissions
 	
 





Online Admissions

Apply Now
Request Information
Tuition & Fees


Financial AidOverviewFAQs








Need Help?
Call 844-302-3886
 							Email Us
 							





Apply to UofM Global
Daydream no longer. If you're driven to do more, start your path to a better future today by applying
 to UofM Global. A new career path is just a click away.
 
Undergraduate Student Application

Undergraduate Application > 
 
 
The undergraduate application is for first-time freshmen, transfer, and readmit applicants.
 



Graduate Student Application

Graduate Application >

If you hold a bachelor's degree and are applying as a graduate applicant, please use
 the graduate application.
 




Contact the Office of Admissions
If you have questions about the application process or a submitted application, please
 contact:
 
UofM Global Admissionsuofmglobal@memphis.edu844.302.3886201 Brister Hall   |   Memphis, TN 38152-3520
 
Graduate Admissionsgraduateadmissions@memphis.edu 901.678.3685201 FedEx Institute of Technology   |   Memphis, TN 38152-3115 
 

Get Started on the Right Track
From admission to graduation, we are invested in your success. Whether you're considering enrolling or have just been admitted, we encourage you
 to complete the complimentary College Prep course. College Prep is 100% free and can be completed online at your own pace, on your
 own time. You can start the course anytime!
 
The course focuses on skills proven to support college success such as proper study
 habits, time management, accessing university resources, setting academic goals and
 writing skills. You'll also learn about the University of Memphis and available degree
 programs.
 
Upon completion of the course and enrollment at the University of Memphis, you can
 apply for three credit hours of Experienctial Learning Credit (ELC), which is the
 equivalent of one class, at a cost of only $75 per credit hour. Register for the course >












About UofM Global


Learn More
Ranked Online Degrees
Accreditations
Contact Us



Degrees and Programs


Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Certificates
Corporate Partners
Complimentary Courses





Admissions


Apply Now
Request Info
Financial Aid
Tuition & Fees


Contact Us
Tuition
Financial Aid


Students


Student Services & Support
SmartStart
Learning Support
Technology Support
Advising
Register for Courses
Experiential Learning Credit
Graduation




 












Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice


Last Updated: 12/10/20


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct. 

 






























