https://www.memphis.edu/cpls/programs/lgst.php



 



Legal Studies - 
 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	








Areas of Study
Online
Resources
Community Engagement
Connect









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact



















Take Action



Find the program that's right for you
Become a part of CPLS
Advising Appointments
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	College of Professional & Liberal Studies
 	

 	Areas of Study
 	Legal Studies

Legal Studies
The Legal Studies program teaches theoretical and practical aspects of the field of
 law as a profession. Students are equipped to offer substantive legal support services
 to firms and agencies or to continue their education in law school. The core curriculum
 emphasizes four correlated disciplines:
 

Theory, process, application, and ethics of law;
Legal and administrative research and investigation;
Law-related technologies; and
Professional decorum and communication skills.

Only licensed attorneys are permitted to practice law, but well-trained paralegals
 and support staff are indispensable to any organization that faces critical issues
 in law, regulatory compliance, or policy. The unique skill sets of Legal Studies graduates
 are vital not only to law firms but also to corporations, government agencies, courts,
 law enforcement, health care organizations, non-profits, educational institutions,
 and a wide range of other professional settings.
 


Admission to the Program
Undergraduate students admitted to University of Memphis may pursue a degree in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies by completing
 Declaration of Major form. 
 
Once accepted, students must seek academic advising prior to the start of each semester. Advisors will provide guidance in developing
 a meaningful educational plan that is compatible with the student's abilities, values,
 interests and career goals. Academic advising is available in-person, by phone and
 web conference. 
 
Fees and Scholarships
Students are encouraged to visit University and Student Business Services regularly to review fee charts, deadlines and other important details as they are
 subject to change. 
 
The College of Professional and Liberal Studies offers several scholarships for students meeting the stated requirements. Students may apply for scholarships
 through Tiger Scholarship Manager.
 















Degree Requirements
Students in the Legal Studies concentration will select from a set of courses to form
 a coordinated plan of study. Requirements for this program include general education,
 core requirements, internship, thematic studies, senior project and general electives.
 Students should seek guidance from their advisor every semester and follow the assigned degree plan.  A minor may be pursued with this degree through the submission of a completed minor application. Approval must be granted from the graduation analyst of the minor they are seeking
 as well as the College of Professional and Liberal Studies graduation analyst. 
 
3+3 Accelerated BA/JD program
The Legal Studies 3+3 Program is a partnership between the College of Professional
 and Liberal Studies and the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. This unique program
 will allow UM eligible students to earn a bachelor’s degree and a law degree in six
 years, saving a full year of time and tuition. Learn more about the program on the law school's website. 
 
Thematic Studies
Thematic studies focus on significant themes in social, political, and religious history. All College
 of Professional and Liberal Studies students must complete 6 credit hours of thematic studies courses. These courses are offered on campus and online in many interdisciplinary topics.
 
100% Online Curriculum
The Legal Studies Program is part of UofM Global, which means our curriculum is delivered
 entirely online. Coursework consists of asynchronous weekly online instruction with
 periodic real-time video-conference meetings. This offers lots of flexibility without
 sacrificing the option of occasional face-to-face interaction. It also helps our instructors
 integrate technology into the curriculum more seamlessly, so students can graduate
 with the digital fluency required in today's advancing legal field.
 
 Legal Studies Internship
Every student seeking a BPS in Legal Studies is required to complete a 150-hour internship
 (UNIV 4110). Students may only enroll in the Legal Studies internship during their
 final year of school and must complete all requirements in the Legal Studies Internship Packet. Although the Legal Studies Coordinator and the Academic Advisors are available to
 assist as necessary, it is ultimately the student's responsibility to secure an internship
 position before the semester starts. Once a student accepts an internship offer, the
 student must request a permit to register for the Legal Studies Internship course. Although student interns are working off campus, the internship is a formal, online
 class for which students must register prior to starting their service. Students who
 intern without getting advisor approval in advance will not receive academic credit.
 
Every semester, there are several sections of UNIV 4110 offered to students in all
 disciplines. Only one section is designated exclusively for Legal Studies students.
 The registration paperwork is also different for Legal Studies versus other fields
 of study. Students must be sure to register for the correct section of UNIV 4110 and
 submit the proper paperwork. For more information on internships, please email us
 at legalstudies@memphis.edu.
 
Prior Learning Assessment
Students who wish to accelerate the completion of their degree may be eligible to
 earn credit through Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) which includes credit earned by
 CLEP or DSST standardized exams, Experiential Learning Credit, or departmental credit by examination.















File for Graduation
Undergraduate students who are within two semesters of graduation should review the
 required process to file for graduation. All parts must be completed by the posted deadline. 
 
Career Development
Students interested in learning more about career options in Legal Studies should
 review information and set an appointment to meet with a Career Specialist in our
 Career Services Office.
 
School of Law
Students interested in continuing on to law school will be more prepared having completed
 the Legal Studies degree. Knowledge on how to brief cases, conduct legal research,
 and read legal citations prior to starting law school will provide a significant advantage. The
 Legal Studies concentration focuses on the substantive points of the law so that graduates
 of the program step into their first law class with a level of comfort, assurance,
 and skills that the typical law student will not have.
 
Local and National Organizations
Legal Students Association was formed to provide networking and professional development opportunities for students
 interested in any aspect of the legal field. While LSA was founded by Legal Studies
 students, members do not have to major in Legal Studies to join. LSA welcomes not
 only paralegals and future lawyers, but also students aspiring toward law enforcement,
 government/politics, public policy, corrections, court reporting and stenography,
 investigation and forensics, process service, and legal office administration.Every
 semester, we host panels of professionals from these fields to meet with students
 and answer their questions about law-related careers.
 
Lambda Epsilon Chi (LEX) is a national honor society for paralegals and legal assistants. It was founded in
 1996 by the American Association for Paralegal Education, and the University of Memphis
 established its local Chapter in 2007. Legal Studies majors may apply to be inducted
 into the National Honor Society at any time after earning at least 80 credits (two-thirds
 of the degree requirements). National Inductees must also have a 3.5 GPA in their
 Legal Studies classes and a 3.25 GPA overall. All National Inductees who apply before
 the deadline and pay any requisite fees are recognized at graduation with a purple
 cord and sash and the official LEX certificate and pin. For more information, please
 contact Lambda Epsilon Chi at lex@memphis.edu. 
 
Greater Memphis Paralegal AllianceMemphis Paralegal AssociationLegal Professionals of Memphis (MLSA)National Association for Legal Assistants (NALA) - The association for Legal ProfessionalsNational Federation of Paralegal Associations (NFPA)American Association for Paralegal Education (AAfPE)American Bar Association (ABA)Request membership and join us on LinkedIn
Additional Resources

View our collection of videos for legal studies students
NALA Paralegal Certification
UM Pre-Law Information
UM Mock Trial Team
Tennessee State Courts
Federal Courts
Job Outlook for Paralegals
Legal Thought and Liberal Studies Minor
Westlaw Training Videos
LexisNexis Academic Training Videos














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/26/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































