https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/graduate/esms_ms.php



 



Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences (MS) - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





Graduate Admissions

MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science

MS Health Promotion

MS Exercise Nutrition

MS Physical Education Teacher Education

MS Environmental Nutrition

MS Nutrition Science

 MS Clinical NutritionAboutAdmissionsMS & DI Combined ProgramResourcesStudentsPreceptors


 PhD Applied Physiology & NeuromechanicsAboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty





Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Graduate
 	Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences (MS)

Master's Degree in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences


The graduate program in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences (ESMS):


is a 36-hour program with four six-hour capstone options: 1) applied project, 2) research
 lab residency, 3) thesis and 4) non-research. 
 
provides a research-centered program if you're interested in pursuing advanced graduate
 study (PhD) in exercise science (e.g., exercise physiology, biomechanics, motor learning,
 etc.) or a related discipline (e.g., nutrition science, vascular biology, bioenergetics).
 
provides a comprehensive overview of the exercise science field if you are not interested
 in pursuing PhD studies, but would like to obtain further knowledge and skills necessary
 to work or serve in a clinical, physical activity or research setting.
 
provides a strong focus on research methods and statistics relevant to exercise science,
 promoting research understanding regardless of your career goal (12 of the 36 required
 credit hours).
 
provides freedom, in collaboration with your major professor, to select elective courses
 specific to your personal interests and career goals.
 
provides opportunities to complete an internship in a clinical, research or health-fitness
 setting.
 
provides opportunities to work within one of the faculty-directed laboratories to
 gain valuable research experience, either as a volunteer or graduate research assistant.
 


Depending on your chosen path, you will gain experience in many aspects of animal
 and/or human subject research. This may include recruitment and screening of subjects,
 equipment operation, phlebotomy and blood processing, animal handling and surgery,
 biochemical analyses, biomechanical analyses, data collection and analysis, grant
 and manuscript preparation, and oral and written presentation of research findings.
 
Major
Health Studies

Concentration: Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences
Degree: Master of Science (MS)
Degree Sheet

When completing the MS application, your major will be Health Studies with a concentration in Exercise, Sport & Movement
 Sciences. 
 
For more info: Lawrence Weiss | lweiss@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

Testimonials 
"I completed both my Bachelor’s and Master’s within the College of Health Sciences.
 The six years I spent within the College were some of the most transformative years
 I have experienced thus far. From receiving a world-class education taught by renowned
 faculty in their respective disciplines, to working alongside faculty and gaining
 knowledge in conducting interdisciplinary research, the dedication of the College
 to educating future leaders in health sciences shaped my career and the person I am
 today. Because of the experiences I had during my time within the College, I continued
 my education, completed a doctoral degree, and pursued a career in academics to help
 develop the next round of health science professionals. I am forever grateful for
 my time spent within the College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis.
 It has become a place that feels less like a university, and more like home, whenever
 I come back." - Shelby A. Peel, PhD
"The graduate program within the College of Health Sciences was vital in the development
 of my professional and personal skills, as I got to learn from, and collaborate with
 leading scientists and experts across numerous fields. Ultimately, my time at the
 University of Memphis provided me with an outstanding foundation for ensuing work
 as a researcher and sport scientist."  - Johnpaul Caia, PhD
"My time spent within the College of Health Sciences exceeded my expectations. I was
 surrounded by some of the most respected scientists within the exercise/sport science
 field, which allowed for great mentoring that helped me though my doctorate and now
 as a faculty member. I learned a tremendous amount about research, and was able to
 collaborate on many different projects that enriched my education while being at the
 University of Memphis. I know my time spent within the College of Health Sciences
 will only help me to excel as an educator and researcher." - Tyler M. Farney, PhD, CSCS, USAW
"Throughout my graduate studies within the College of Health Sciences, I was provided
 an education that is second to none. The skills acquired through this program allowed
 me to reach my academic goals in addition to providing me with the necessary tools
 to succeed as an educator and in the field of research. I had the opportunity to work
 in multiple labs alongside of some of the most respected scientists in their fields
 which allowed for a diverse educational experience.  The education provided by the
 College of Health Sciences fully prepared me to face the rigors of Ph.D. studies and
 beyond. Without question, much of the success I have earned, as well as my potential
 for future success, can be credited to the education acquired from the College of
 Health Sciences and their exceptional professors." - Damien C. Moore, MS
"As a former student and graduate from the College of Health Sciences, I was provided
 with a well-rounded foundation that prepared me for success stemming from my experience
 in the Cardiorespiratory/Metabolic and Neuromechanics laboratories. To date, this
 has allowed me to expand my training beyond the classroom setting and gain hands on
 experience conducting a variety health and performance related tests on human participants.
 The unique training allowed me to become a well prepared and collaborative researcher,
 as I am currently part of a research team that integrates areas of metabolism, biomechanics
 and motor control to improve aspects of physical health and performance. I would highly
 recommend the College of Health Sciences to anyone interested in pursuing a career
 in a health or performance related field." -Matt McAllister, MS
"Throughout my graduate studies within the College of Health Sciences, I was provided
 an education that is second to none. I learned the skills required to reach my academic
 goals as well as the skills needed succeed in the field as an educator and researcher.
 As a current doctoral student in Kinesiology, it is clear that my education within
 CHS fully prepared me to face the demands of PhD studies and beyond. Without question,
 much of the success I have had, as well as my potential for future success, is a credit
 to my graduate education in the College of Health Sciences." -John R. Harry, MS, CSCS
"The knowledge I acquired throughout my graduate career with the College of Health
 Sciences is invaluable. I had the opportunity to experience vast academic growth in
 the classroom, author/co-author several research publications, work daily in multiple
 labs, and achieve my ultimate goal of gaining admittance into medical school. I am
 forever grateful to the faculty of this department for truly inspiring me to reach
 my full potential and aiding in my future success as a physician." -Trint A. Gunnels, MS
"The graduate program in the College of Health Sciences helped prepare me for a career
 in biomedical research. Through the program I was further educated in an applied science
 while also taking courses in the basic sciences. The research focus of the program
 has equipped me with physical and analytical knowledge that will not only help in
 my career, but in life as well." -Rick Alleman Jr., MS

We are endorsed by the National Strength and Conditioning Association's (NSCA) Education Recognition Program
 (ERP). The NSCA ERP recognizes and distinguishes schools with standardized, approved strength
 and conditioning or personal training curricula in undergraduate and graduate settings
 designed to prepare students for the NSCA-Certified Personal Trainer® (NSCA-CPT®)
 and NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist® (CSCS®) certifications.
 














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/27/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































