https://www.memphis.edu/english/undergraduates/concentrations/esl.php



 



English as a Second Language (ESL) - 
 	Department of English
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of English
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
People
Community
News/Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduates





 Concentrations

African American Literature

Creative Writing

TESOL

Applied Linguistics

Literature

Professional Writing


Advising

Online Degree Programs

Honors Program

Accelerated BA/MA

First-Year Writing Program

Scholarships

Undergraduate Internship Opportunities

2020-2022 Two Year Course Template

2020-2022 Undergraduate Course Rotation

Undergraduate Catalog

English Course Descriptions




Take Action



Apply Now
Alumni and Friends
Course Offerings
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
Facebooktwitter




Home

 	Department of English
 	

 		Undergraduates
 English as a Second Language (ESL)

 
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages
The Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) concentration allows students
 to focus beyond their core English literature, language, and writing courses. Specialized
 study in TESOL methods and in language assessment provides students with the basic
 skills needed to teach ESL in the US and abroad. Students enrolled in the TESOL concentration
 can choose between two tracks: a general TESOL track and a track leading to PreK-12
 licensure as an ESL teacher. Click the links below for more information on each:
 
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages General Track
English as a Second Language PreK-12 Licensure Track
 Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages General Track
 
In addition to the English Major requirements and electives, TESOL students must choose
 12 hours from the following list following the Program Notes as outlined below and
 in the Undergraduate Catalog - English (B.A.) 

ENGL 4101-4109 Special Topics in English (only if topic is ESL)
ENGL 4530 Practicum in ESL
ENGL 4531 Methods and Techniques in ESL
ENGL 4532 Skills, Approaches, and Assessment for ESL
ENGL 4533 ESL/EFL in Multicultural Settings 

Program Notes:

Students are encouraged to take 4531 and/or 4532 as part of their concentration.
Students may apply up to 6 hours of courses chosen from Applied Linguistics toward the TESOL concentration with the approval of the English Undergraduate Advisor.
 
Students may apply up to 6 hours of English 4530 (Practicum) toward their concentration.
Students who wish to satisfy the requirements for both the English major and the endorsement
 to teach English in high school should consult the College of Education for licensure
 requirements.
 

 
 English as a Second Language PreK-12 Licensure Track
 
This program prepares students for PreK-12 licensure as ESL teachers in the state
 of Tennessee. This track allows students to combine the critical thinking, reading,
 and writing skills developed as an English major with an in-depth understanding of
 ESL methods for language teaching, learning, and assessment. Students on the ESL Licensure
 Track should consult with the undergraduate advisor to plan the sequence of courses
 (including recommended General Education courses), admission to the Teacher Education
 Program (TEP), residency, and other licensure requirements. 
 
In addition to the English Major requirements, PreK-12 licensure students must complete
 the English and Teacher Preparation courses listed below:
 

ENGL 3501 Modern English Grammar
ENGL 3511 Intro to Linguistics or 3521 The American Language
ENGL 4530 Practicum in ESL
ENGL 4531 Methods and Techniques ESL
ENGL 4532 Skills/App/Assess ESL
ENGL 4533 ESL/EFL in Multicultural Settings
ENGL 4514/ICL 4914 Residency I Practicum

Students also need to pass relevant Praxis exams and other state requirements for
 teacher licensure:
 

SPED 2000 Foundation Exceptional Learners
IDT 3600 Technology in Education
EDPR 2111 Development Across Lifespan
SPED 3800 Methods I: Instruction in Literacy
RDNG 4240 Literacy in Grades K-4
RDNG 4241 Literacy in Grades 5-8
ICL 3333 Student Assess/Inst Dec Mkng
ICL 4021 Professional/Ethical Practices
ICL 4904 Residency II Clinical
ICL 4800 Professional Seminar

Program Notes:

Teacher Education Program–Students must apply for provisional admission to TEP before
 the end of Sophomore year and fulfill all TEP requirements no later than Fall of the Junior year (fifth semester of enrollment).
 A 2.75 GPA is required for provisional admission to TEP. Full Admission to TEP occurs the semester before residency year and
 requires a 3.00 GPA and a passing score on CORE. More information on admission to
 the Teacher Education Program (TEP) is found on their website at https://www.memphis.edu/tep/
Licensure Exams–Students must take the Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educators (Core)
 tests and a Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam to be fully licensed. Check https://www.ets.org/, click on Praxis and use pulldown menu to find TN required tests. Details about the
 "English to Speakers of Other Languages" test is here: https://www.ets.org/praxis/prepare/materials/5362.
 
Capstone Degree and Licensure Requirement–All teacher candidates must complete ICL
 4800 (Professional Seminar) to be recommended for licensure and to be awarded the
 BA degree. During ICL 4800 each candidate will complete a nationally scored teacher
 performance assessment called edTPA. Candidates must meet the minimum established
 score on the edTPA. Failure to do so will result in a delay in licensure recommendation.
 If unsuccessful, the candidate is responsible for resubmitting his/her edTPA, including
 the cost.
 

 
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Coordinator:
Dr. Rebecca Adams
901.678.4892
radams4@memphis.edu
 

 



Apply Now >














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































