https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/transfer/index.php



 



Transfer Students - 
 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	








Important Announcements
Freshmen
Transfer
Readmit
Non-Degree
International
High School
Graduate
FAQ
Virtual Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Transfer Students





 Applying to UofMAdmissions RequirementsApplication Checklist (PDF)Admissions CounselingDeadlinesSubmit ApplicationNext StepsAfter Acceptance


Transferring Credits

 Residency + TuitionResidency PolicyBorder County Tuition WaiverNon-Resident TuitionEligibility VerificationTuition Overview


Scholarships + Financial Aid




Take Action



Meet Our Staff
#MEMBOUND?
Campus Visits and Events
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutube




Home

 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	

 	Transfer
 	



 
Request Info >
Visit >
Apply >

Are you driven to do more? 
You've come to the right place, and you're not alone. Each year 1,000+ students transfer
 to the UofM to further their education, to advance their careers, to take part in
 ground breaking research and to find their new home. We offer our diverse student
 body countless ways to enhance their college experience and meet their academic and
 personal needs. 
 
At the University of Memphis, you can choose from more than 250 program areas in 12
 colleges and schools. Location is key as well, so you can choose to attend on-ground
 in Memphis, at the UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, TN, or anywhere you'd like through
 our fully-online and nationally ranked program, UofM Global.
 
 

Transfer Student Guide
Learn more about programs,financial aid and more.
 
Download Guide >
Living on Campus
Explore housing options. Dormsand apartments are available.
 
Explore Housing >


Transferring Credits
Will my credits transfer? Learn more and review the equivalency table.
 
Transfer Credit Guide >
Financing Your Education
Explore scholarship andfinancial aid opportunities.
 
Scholarships + Aid >


Graduate Transfer Students
Review information forgrad student transfers.
 
Grad Students >
Residency + Tuition
Learn more about feesand use the tuition calculator.
 
Tuition Overview >

 

The Application Process




 
You are considered a transfer student if you have attempted 12 or more credit hours
 at any college or university after high school graduation or high school equivalency
 completion. View our Admissions Requirements below to learn more.
 

 

Admissions Requirements
View step-by-step instructions for applying as a transfer student.
 
Review Requirements >


Application Checklist
Ready to apply? Download this checklist to track your progress.
 
Download Checklist >


Submit Application
Ready to apply? Start YourApplication.
 
Apply Now >

 
Deadlines may vary for readmits, international students and specific programs (ex:
 nursing). View additional details and deadlines >
What's Next?

After You ApplyApply to UofM  ✔️ Wondering what happens next? Next Steps > 
 
After AdmittanceDid you receive your acceptance letter? Congrats! Complete these steps next.Admitted Students >
 
About UofMCheck out a virtual tour, and learn more about the city, student life and more.About UofM >


Student LifeGet involved and make the most of your college experience.Check Out Campus Life >
 
Academic Support & Student ServicesCounseling, tutoring and more services are available.Support Resources >

 

Meet Your Admissions Counselors
Carol ChancellorEmail: cchncllr@memphis.edu
Schedule a Virtual Meeting with Carol >
 
Caribeth FriedmanEmail: cfrdman1@memphis.edu
Schedule a Virtual Meeting with Caribeth >
 

Get Connected
Follow @uofmemphis on social media to connect with fellow Tigers and stay up-to-date
 on news.
 


Frequently Asked Questions





Should I transfer to the UofM?



We are excited to talk to you about the educational opportunities waiting for you
 at the University of Memphis! Currently we have a student body of nearly 22,000 and
 offer 17 bachelor’s degrees in more than 250 areas of study as well as graduate programs
 in a number of disciplines. We are proud to have the largest Honors program in the
 State of Tennessee, as well as being No. 1 in online learning statewide.
 
 





Should I finish my college degree?



YES! Over 1/3 of the student population at the University of Memphis enters with transfer
 credit! According to the National Student Clearinghouse, recipients of bachelor’s
 degrees earn an average of $21,000 more per year than high school graduates. The fastest
 growing jobs in America require college degrees, and college graduates have lower
 unemployment rates. The University of Memphis ranks in the Top 10 for Student Internship
 Placement according to U.S. News & World Report, and we have the resources and people
 in place to help you get the job experience you need to move your resume to the top
 of the stack.
 





How will my current coursework transfer to UofM?



Classes that you have previously taken at other colleges or universities will be evaluated
 to determine course credit at the UofM. You can access our equivalency tables online
 for a quick look at the credit you are likely to receive.
 





How will my GPA transfer to UofM?



You will receive course credit for all previous coursework that is eligible for transfer
 to the University of Memphis, and the UofM will recalculate your GPA for the purpose
 of admission based only on the classes eligible to transfer to the UofM. Therefore,
 our GPA calculation may be different than the calculation given at your most recent
 institution depending on the courses you have taken.
 





What will happen to my financial aid when I transfer?



Your award types and amounts will vary between institutions depending on availability
 and cost factors. If you are transferring in the middle of the academic year, you
 will need to log into your FAFSA account and move the UofM to the top of your list.
 Then you can work with the Office of Financial Aid to see what types of aid you will
 qualify for at the UofM.
 



















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 7/16/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































