https://www.memphis.edu/healthsciences/undergraduate/pete.php



 



Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) - 
 	College of Health Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			College of Health Sciences
 	








About
Undergraduate
Graduate
Certificates & Continuing Ed
Students
Research
Centers & Institutes
News & Events
Contact Us









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Undergraduate





 DieteticsAboutAdmissionsMissionCurriculumResourcesFAQ


Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences

Health Sciences

Healthcare Leadership

Physical Education Teacher Education

Sport Coaching

Medical Assisting (Minor)

Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor)

Accelerated BS to MS

Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses




Take Action



Find a Program that Drives You
Meet our Faculty
Schedule an Advising Appointment
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	College of Health Sciences
 	

 	Undergraduate
 	Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE)

Physical Education Teacher Education - BSEd

Our fully-accredited Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) program is led by
 a vibrant and productive faculty that is nationally and internationally recognized
 for its scholarship. We are also highly engaged in our local community, specifically
 with the local school districts, the YMCA, City of Memphis Parks and the Memphis Grizzlies. 
 We provide research and service learning opportunities for you in our large partnership
 network, offer financial support and prepare you for numerous career opportunities.
 
This licensure program prepares you to become physically-literate teachers and coaches
 who are trained in the best practices of physical education and wellness. There are
 multiple field experience opportunities with some of the finest teachers in local
 schools.
 
The Ready2Teach Residency program, which is a full-year student teaching experience,
 emulates an authentic school year starting at the very first day of school. This superior
 student teaching opportunity grooms you to be effective teachers in a comprehensive
 manner.
 
» Learn more about our master’s degree program in physical education teacher education.
 
Major
Physical Education Teacher Education - Licensure
The teaching profession, with its concern for the education of children and youth,
 is one of the most important professions society has to offer. A primary goal of the
 College of Health Sciences is to prepare you to teach physical education and health,
 K-12. You'll complete courses in general education, professional education and physical
 education. Physical education courses encompass specialized courses in the foundations
 of physical education, skill development and methods of teaching. Throughout the undergraduate
 years, you'll engage in clinical experiences, culminating with a full-year residency
 student-teaching experience during your senior year. Fully accredited by the National
 Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE), graduates are licensed
 to teach physical education and health K-12 in the State of Tennessee.
 

Concentration: Licensure
Degree: Bachelor of Science in Education (BSEd)
PETE Licensure Degree Sheet (subject to change)
 
TEP Application - Application open Oct. 1-Nov. 1, 2021
 
Courses offered by semester

 


Careers
Upon graduating with a BSEd, you'll are well prepared to attend graduate school within
 the following areas*:
 

Physical Education Teacher Education (K-12)
Health Education (K-12)
Community-Based Youth Serving Agencies

* Note: You should seek the guidance of the academic services coordinator, the pre-health
 professional advisor, faculty mentors and/or the college/school of interest with regards
 to needed pre-requisite courses for Graduate School admission.
 
Students who successfully complete the concentration in physical education acquire
 the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching and coaching in traditional schools
 as well as community settings. Graduates elect to teach at elementary, middle school,
 junior high or high school levels, or seek employment with community agencies such
 as YMCAs, fitness centers, camps and other sport related businesses. You are also
 well prepared to begin employment within the following areas:
 

Corporate wellness
Health club facility management
Personal training
Group fitness instruction
Fitness and wellness coaching
Strength and conditioning coaching

For more info: Todd Layne | telayne@memphis.edu Program Coordinator
 

 Download the PETE Brochure

 
Student Testimonials
"The College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis, exceeded my expectations
 from the moment I walked into the office of my advisor, Kathy Walker. I had just returned
 from Romania, where I taught P.E. for a year, with no knowledge of what I was doing,
 but I knew that I wanted this to be my career. Knowing nothing about the physical
 education teacher education program at UofM, I entered the program after being out
 of school for sometime. Kathy Walker secured my classes and set me up for success.
 One of my first semesters, I had Dr. Niki Bray, Dr. Carol Irwin, and Dr. Todd Layne,
 along with other great teachers, many being graduate students. The amount of knowledge,
 passion and desire for their students to not only pass, but to walk out of the program
 ready to impact children's lives everyday as a coach and P.E. teacher was evident
 in each of my instructors. My professors set high expectations and pushed each one
 of us to be our very best every day. As a PETE major, I developed the professional
 goal to make sure a child can feel better about themselves and feel confident in the
 physical active world. I am thankful for this experience and can not wait to put it
 into practice." -Rebekah Gosney, BSEd
"I had the privilege of earning my BSEd and am in the process of earning my MS from
 the University of Memphis. As cliché as it may sound, I really have learned a lot
 about physical education and how to go about teaching kids the right way to live a
 healthy lifestyle. One of the most awesome parts about being a member of the PETE
 program is that the faculty really want you to succeed and be great in every aspect
 of teaching. We hear encouragement all the time and really are being molded into great
 teachers and leaders in our profession. It feels like a family here and to be a Tiger
 for almost 6 years has been special." -Dustin Duren, BSEd
"I cannot praise the physical education department at the University of Memphis enough. 
 I feel like I received the training and education necessary to be prepared for my
 own classroom as a physical education instructor. Physical education is a field that
 I knew I had a passion in, however the PETE program opened my eyes to what physical
 education can truly be, and how it can be used to change the health of our world. 
 As a transfer student, I was brought in with open arms.  All of the PETE faculty are
 extremely knowledgeable and approachable with an "open door" policy.  The faculty
 have real experience and have completed extensive research to help students with their
 learning. Without question, much of the success I have earned as well as my potential
 for future success can be credited to the education acquired from the PETE Program
 and their exceptional faculty. I know that with my education and training at the University
 of Memphis, I am ready for the challenge of taking physical education in the classroom
 to the next level." -Sam Thompson, BSEd
 
PETE MAJORS CLUB 
 
The purpose of the PETE Club:

Assist you in taking the necessary steps to complete your degree
Praxis II study groups
Volunteer opportunities
Network with other PETE students during your studies, student teaching and career
Opportunities to attend state and national conferences - TAHPERD and SHAPE
Leadership opportunities to become an officer
Looks GREAT on your resume

Contact the faculty advisor to join: Becky Bocz
Membership Costs: $15.00 per year
 
» Check out the PETE blog!

Human Performance Labs
Within the College of Health Sciences, a collection of faculty-directed laboratories is available devoted to the scientific study of human health, performance and fitness.
 
Both undergraduate and graduate students have opportunities to participate in faculty-directed
 research. Students also work within the various labs as volunteers, interns or graduate
 research assistants.
 


Scholarships
UG Catalog
Grad Catalog














Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/14/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































