https://www.memphis.edu/admissions/international-archive/index.php



 



International Students - 
 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	








Important Announcements
Freshmen
Transfer
Readmit
Non-Degree
International
High School
Graduate
FAQ
Virtual Resources









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















International Students




 Getting StartedApplication ChecklistRequest InformationISS OfficeHousing OptionsAcademic ProgramsUndergraduate Catalog


 Residency InformationResidency PolicyEVEA


 Apply for AdmissionAdmission RequirementsApplication DeadlineApply Now!


 What to ExpectAcknowledgementApplication ReviewAdmission Decision


 After AcceptanceI-20 and VisaArriving in the USVisit the ISSAdvisingRegistrationID CardParkingFee Payment


International Graduate




Take Action



Meet Our Staff
#MEMBOUND?
Campus Visits and Events
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutube




Home

 	Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation
 	

 	International Students
 	

International Students
University of Memphis welcomes students from all over the world, with 84 foreign countries
 currently represented in our student body. Any student enrolled at the University of Memphis who is a visa holder is considered
 an international student.
 
The Center for International Education Services (CIES) assists more than 1,000 foreign and international exchange students on our
 campus. The CIES supports international students by providing advice on immigration
 matters, employment, taxation, cultural adjustment and other practical issues. The
 office conducts an international student orientation each semester, coordinates insurance
 information and assists with International Night and other cultural functions. The
 office insures the University is in compliance with the United States Student and
 Exchange Visitor System (SEVIS) which reports directly to U. S. Immigration and Customs
 Enforcement.
 
Graduate Students: View Graduate School Admissions Information

Temporary Approval of Duolingo English Test
For international students affected by testing centers closures due to the coronavirus
 (COVID-19), the University of Memphis has temporarily approved the use of the Duolingo English Test to assess applicants’ English proficiency. Only Duolingo English Tests taken after
 January 1, 2020 will be accepted.  The University of Memphis requires a score of 85
 or higher to satisfy the English proficiency requirement. 
 
The exam cost $49 (USD) and may be taken from any computer that has a camera, audio
 and reliable internet. The exam portion of the Duolingo English test contains a series
 of speaking, reading, writing and listening exercises. Following the exam, there will
 be an interview portion that will ask you to respond to various prompts in 30 to 90
 seconds. The exam will take about 45 minutes to complete and you will need either
 a passport, driver license, or national or state ID to show the camera. The score
 results are generally received within a few days of exam completion.
 
Should you choose to take the Duolingo English test, the access information is below.
Information on preparing for the exam   | Take the exam or practice exam
A verification email will be sent to you a few days after completing the exam containing
 a link to send your score to the University of Memphis.
 
For additional information, please review the frequently asked questions.
 

Experience the UofM campus on your computer or mobile phone through our interactive
 virtual tour of campus. Use a VR headset and the mobile app for a life-like experience!
 
Memphis













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/18/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































