https://www.memphis.edu/art/programs/ma_arthistory.php



 



MA in Art History - 
 	Department of Art
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Art
 	







About
Programs
People
Facilities
Resources
News/Events









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Programs





 UndergraduateArt Education (BFA)Art History (BA)Fashion Design (BA)Fashion Merchandising (BA)Foundation StudiesGraphic Design (BFA)Photography (BFA)Studio Arts (BFA)Visual Arts (BA)


 Graduate

Art Education (MAT)

Art History (MA)

Ceramics (MFA)

Graphic Design (MFA)

Painting (MFA)

Photography (MFA)

Printmaking (MFA)

Sculpture (MFA)


 CertificatesGraphic DesignMuseum Studies


Course Catalog




Take Action



Apply to the UofM
Art Appreciation
Support the College
Contact Us




Follow Us Online
InstagramFacebook




Home

 	Department of Art
 	

 	Programs
 	MA in Art History


Art History, M.A.
Art History at the University of Memphis is the study of art as both a reflection
 of culture and an active agent in shaping it. As such, painting, sculpture, architecture,
 photography, video, performance, mixed media, among other mediums, are understood
 to be intricately related to a broader cultural context including literature, philosophy,
 religion, politics, and science. Students are trained to closely analyze art and visual
 culture from an interdisciplinary perspective, taking into consideration the creative
 process, viewer reception, and artistic function.
 
The goal of the Master's program is to equip students with a specialist knowledge
 in a specific field of art and visual culture and produce graduates with the analytical
 training, writing skills, and research techniques necessary to pursue further doctoral
 studies or a range of employment opportunities in education, museums and galleries,
 conservation, arts organizations, or publishing. With one of the largest art history
 faculties in the Southeast (nine Ph.D. faculty) offering a number of graduate courses,
 such as Art and Iconoclasm, Methods and Research, Greek Art, Visual Arts of Africa,
 Museum Studies, Egyptian Art and Architecture, Modern American Photography, Realism
 and Impressionism, and Contemporary Folk Art, the art history program at the University
 of Memphis ranks among the best in the region.
 
The program has been further distinguished among state institutions by awards of both
 a Chair of Excellence (the Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History, which provides us with a distinguished visiting scholar every year), and a Center
 of Excellence, the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, which supports the study
 of the art of Egypt with a substantial research library and object collection, as
 well as a distinguished faculty of five, making it one of the largest teaching programs
 in the U.S.
 
The program provides the opportunity for concentration in either General Art History
 or Egyptian Art and Archaeology. In addition, students can participate in the Interdisciplinary
 Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies (administered jointly by the Departments
 of Anthropology and Art). This Program prepares students who are currently enrolled
 in or have graduated from Master's or Doctoral degree programs to enter museum professions,
 such as administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition
 development, and curation. Two years are normally required to complete the 30 hour
 MA program, of which 21 hours are spent in seminars and directed research. Active
 students in the program usually number twenty or more and each student is mentored
 by a graduate faculty member.
 
PROGRAM STRUCTURE AND APPLICATION
At least 21 hours of graduate level courses (6000-8000 level) must be taken during
 the first three semesters, with Greek Art and Art History Methods and Practices being
 the only required classes. Before the end of the first year, students are required
 to pass a foreign language translation exam (preferably, French, German, and Italian)
 and an image identification exam. For the concentration in Egyptian art and archaeology,
 an examination in Middle Egyptian is also required. The fourth semester is dedicated
 to writing the thesis, which is researched and written over a period of approximately
 three months with full supervision from the student's faculty advisor. The thesis
 forms a complete induction into primary research methods and all aspects of the presentation
 of research. The topic generally arises from the previous three terms of study.
 
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
Admission to the program is based on faculty review of the following elements: GRE
 score; or Miller Analogy Test and, for the concentration in General Art History, a
 substantial undergraduate training in the history of art. For the concentration in
 Egyptian Art and Archaeology, undergraduate training should be in Egyptology or a
 related field (art history, anthropology, history, classical studies or archaeology).
 
ASSISTANTSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
Assistantships are available to students in the MA program. Graduate Assistants receive
 a waiver for tuition and fees, as well as a stipend in return for service to the Art
 Department or the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology. There are also various
 merit-based university fellowships awarded to graduate students by the Institute of
 Egyptian Art and Archaeology and the College of Communications and Fine Arts. Because
 the Egyptology concentration is unique in the Mid-South, students who are residents
 of states belonging to the Southern Regional Education Board's Academic Common Market
 are eligible to pay in-state tuition. See the SREB website for more information.
 
WHEN TO APPLY
For Fall semester admission with assistantship: February 15. Early applications are
 encouraged. Applications received after April 1 cannot be assured processing for the
 Fall semester. Potential applicants are advised to complete required testing before
 January 1. For those seeking to enter the MA program in the Spring semester, completed
 materials must be received at the University by November 1.
 
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
· Test scores (GRE or MAT)· Official undergraduate transcripts· Letter of intent (indicating why you are applying to this program)· A sample of your written work (a research paper, preferably in this field)· Two letters of reference, at least one from a person who knows your academic potential
 in this field
 
Send the following directly to the appropriate program advisor:
Dr. Lorelei Corcoran, Graduate Advisor for Egyptian Art and Archaeology, The University
 of Memphis, Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, Art & Communication 315B, Memphis,
 TN 38152
 
or
Dr. Fred Albertson, Graduate Advisor for Art of Europe and the Americas/Arts of Africa
 and the African Diaspora,
 
The University of Memphis, Department of Art, Art & Communication 244F, Memphis, TN
 38152
 

Letter of intent (indicating why you are applying to this program)
A sample of your written work (a research paper, preferably in this field)
Two letters of reference, at least one from a person who knows your academic potential
 in this field<
 
Copies of the materials you sent to the Graduate School [above]

If you are applying for an Assistantship, those forms should be sent directly to the
 appropriate Graduate Advisor for Art History as well.
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 4/28/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































