https://www.memphis.edu/msci/grad/phdmath.php



 



Ph.D. Mathematics - 
 	Math Sciences
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Mathematical Sciences
 	








About
People
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















Graduate





Admissions

Assistantships

Awards

Presentations

The M.S. program

 The Ph.D. programProgram InformationPh.D Graduates


Courses & Syllabi

Graduate Exams

Graduate Handbook




Take Action



Student FAQ
Cantor Sect
Contact Us








Home

 	Math Sciences
 	

 	Graduate
 	Ph.D. Mathematics




Ph.D. Requirements - Mathematics
The Ph.D. requirements include both graduate credit requirements (including basic
 required courses) and examinations. Depending on the background of the student, the
 basic required courses and Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be completed within one
 to two years.
 
Course Requirements: 72 hours of graduate credit (or 36 hours for students who enter with an approved
 Master's degree) is required for the degree. In this 72 hour requirement, students
 must satisfactorily complete certain basic required courses: two semesters of Real
 Analysis (Math 7350 and Math 7351), two semesters of Algebra (Math 7261 and Math 7262), one semester of Complex Analysis (either Math 6361 or Math 7361), and one semester of Topology (either Math 6411 or Math 7411). More details on course descriptions and requirements can be found in the Graduate Catalog. See the Graduate handbook for any additional departmental policies.
 
Ph.D. Examinations: The Ph.D. requires three examinations: 1. the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination, which
 is normally completed after the first or second year of graduate studies (depending
 on the student's background); 2. the Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination, which normally
 occurs after the student has begun his/her thesis research; and 3. the Dissertation
 Defense, which occurs at the completion of the program.
 

Ph.D. Qualifying Examination: The PhD Qualifying Examination will consists of two exams, Analysis (covering material
 in Math 7350 and Math 7351) and Algebra (covering material in Math 7261 and Math 7262). The two exams, Analysis and Algebra, may be taken at the same time or in different
 terms. Normally, both exams should be completed by the beginning of the third year
 of graduate studies, but some flexibility may be negotiated with approval of the Graduate
 Committee. The exam will be given in the week prior to the start of the Fall Semester
 and the start of the Spring Semester. Further information on syllabi for basic courses
 and previous Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be found here.Note that the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination structure changed effective January 2014,
 so some previous examinations may contain parts no longer relevant in the current
 structure.
Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination: This is an oral examination in preparation for the Ph.D. Dissertation and primarily
 covers specialized material related to the Dissertation topic. Upon completion of
 this exam the Comprehensive Exam Results Form must be completed and returned to the Math Department.
 
Dissertation Defense: Students are expected to defend their dissertation during their last year in the
 program. Then the Dissertation Final Defense Results Form must be completed and returned to the Graduate School.
 

Completion of the basic course requirements leading to the successful completion of
 the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be summarized by the following tables.
 

To take the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations after the first year of the program


 
Fall
Spring


1st year
Math 7350 Real Variables IMath 7261 Algebraic Theory IMath 6411 or Math 7411 Topology
 
Math 7351 Real Variables IIMath 7262 Algebraic Theory IIMath 6361 or Math 7361 Complex Variables
 



 

To take the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations after the second year of the program


 
Fall
Spring


1st year
Math 6350 Intro to Real Analysis IMath 6261 Abstract AlgebraMath 6411 or Math 7411 Topology
 
Math 6351 Intro to Real Analysis IIMath 6361 or Math 7361 Complex VariablesMath 6000-8999 Elective
 


2nd year
Math 7350 Real Variables IMath 7261 Algebraic Theory IMath 6000-8999 Elective
 
Math 7351 Real Variables IIMath 7262 Algebraic Theory IIMath 6000-8999 Elective
 
















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 11/24/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































