https://www.memphis.edu/jrsm/undergraduate_programs/pr.php



 



Public Relations Major - 
 	JRSM
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			Department of Journalism and Strategic Media
 	








About
B.A. Program
M.A. Program
People
Syllabi
Student Resources
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact


















B.A. Program





Advertising

Journalism

Public Relations

Creative Mass Media

JRSM Undergraduate Handbook

Transfer students

How to apply




Take Action



Apply to our Undergraduate Program
Apply to our Master's Program
Contact Us
AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium




Follow Us Online
FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn




Home

 	JRSM
 	

 	Undergraduate Program
 	Public Relations Major

Public Relations Major
Public relations is a strategic communication process that builds mutually beneficial
 relationships between organizations and their publics. At its core, public relations
 is about influencing, engaging and building a relationship with key stakeholders across
 a myriad of platforms in order to shape and frame the public perception of an organization.
 
There are many opportunities to get involved and gain real-world experience while
 in the UofM PR program. PR students hold internships at local organizations like St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and FedEx, while others work at agencies like Archer Malmo, inferno and Obsidian PR. Students may also choose to become involved in the Public Relations Student Society of America or Meeman 901 Strategies, the student-run strategic communication firm, to network and develop relationships
 with industry professionals.
 
As a management function, public relations encompasses the following*:
 

Anticipating, analyzing and interpreting public opinion, attitudes and issues that
 might impact the operations and plans of the organization.
 
Counseling management at all levels of the organization with regard to policy decisions,
 courses of action and communication, taking into account their public ramifications
 and the organization's social or citizenship responsibilities.
 
Protecting the reputation of an organization.
Researching, conducting and evaluating, on a continuing basis, programs of action
 and communication to achieve the informed public understanding necessary to the success
 of an organization's aims. These may include marketing; financial; fundraising; employee,
 community or government relations; and other programs.
 
Planning and implementing the organization's efforts to influence or change public
 policy.
 
Setting objectives, planning, budgeting, recruiting and training staff, developing
 facilities — managing the resources needed to perform all of the above.
 
Overseeing the creation of content to drive customer engagement and generate leads.

PR students at the UofM study all aspects of the industry, including brand journalism,
 content marketing, corporate and executive communications, crisis communications,
 event promotion, influencer marketing, internal communications, media relations, reputation
 management, social media management and more.
 
Careers in PR include those on the promotional and protective side. On the promotional
 side of PR, your main job is to convince the media to write a positive story about
 your client or organization through press releases, story pitches, press conferences,
 and events. You can also manage your online and local community relations, handle
 investor relations and even be your brand's spokesperson. The protective side of PR
 is concerned with helping your client or organization maintain their public reputation
 or defend it during a crisis. Here are some roles you can pursue on either side**:
 
Promotional Public Relations

Content Creation: The content creation team usually crafts positive stories about
 their brand that the media relations team pitches to journalists. These stories can
 also pique journalists' interest on their own, like a press release about a major
 company merger. A member of this team writes press materials, bylined articles for
 news outlets, and can even make brand awareness videos.
 
Media Relations: The media relations team develop and maintain relationships with
 journalists, so they can pitch stories to them and seek out interview opportunities
 for their client or organization. They also track all their press, social, and blog
 placements and measure and report their PR campaign's effectiveness.
 
Social Media Management: The social media community team tracks and manages their
 company or client's image on social media. They use social listening tools to gauge
 the company's public reputation, and to bolster it, they interact with their social
 media following, make company announcements on social media, and find social media
 influencers to promote their brand.
 
Community Relations: The community relations team makes sure their company or client
 lives up to their social responsibility potential. They do this by finding ways to
 associate their company or client with positive community events, like sponsoring
 an event, donating money to an organization, or working a philanthropy event. The
 brand's impact on the community gives journalists positive stories to write, which
 increases their number of press placements and strengthens their public reputation.
 
Financial and Investor Relations: At public companies, the financial communications
 team forges relationships with analysts and investors to improve their financial reputation.
 They do this by fielding all analyst, media, and investor inquiries at shareholder
 meetings, press conferences, and private meetings. They also write earnings reports
 and the investor section on their website.
 
Spokesperson: A spokesperson is the face of their company's brand. They speak to the
 general public on behalf of their company during press conferences, make television
 and radio appearances, and respond to any criticism the company might face.
 

Protective Public Relations

Reputation Management: The reputation management team gauges their company or client's
 public reputation by monitoring brand sentiment on social media, review sites, their
 ratings and reviews section on Facebook, their own online communities, and the news.
 This information helps them identify any complaints about their brand and quickly
 address them through social media and other communication channels online.
 
Crisis Management: The crisis management team help clients, or their own company,
 deal with major catastrophes caused by human error, intervention, or even malicious
 intent. They mitigate the damage by releasing statements that take responsibility
 for the issue, crafting company-wide responses to backlash, and spreading awareness
 for their plan to solve their problems through paid, earned, and owned marketing channels.
 They also appoint an official spokesperson to respond to any criticism on behalf of
 their brand at press conferences and interviews.
 

Students in our online PR degree learn the same essentials as their on-campus counterparts.
 To learn more about our PR program, you can contact professor Kim Marks Malone, APR
 at ksmarks@memphis.edu.
 
*These statements were adapted from the Public Relations Society of America.
 
**These statements were adapted from the HubSpot PR Career Guide.
 
 













Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 9/9/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































