https://www.memphis.edu/sph/



 



School of Public Health - 
 	School of Public Health
 	 - The University of Memphis
 





























Skip to main content






 SearchX


Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Family
Alumni
Veterans
Faculty & Staff


Academics


All Things Academics
Colleges & Schools
UofM Global - Online Degree Program
UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendar



Admissions


Undergraduate
Graduate
UofM Global - Online
Law School
International
Transfer Students
Virtual Tour
Fees/Tuition



Research and Innovation


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
For Industry and Partners
Centers and Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Office of Institutional Research



Libraries


University Libraries
Research Resources
Special Collections
Ask-a-Librarian



Athletics


Tiger Athletics
Tickets
Intramurals
Campus Rec
Make A Gift
gotigersgo.com



Support UofM


Make A Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



News & Events


Tiger Zone - Student Events
Campus Events
Media Room: News & Magazines














 
Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates >















Search




Menu










 			School of Public Health
 	








About
Programs
Apply
People
Students
Research
News









eCourseware
umMail
myMemphis
Directories


Visit
Apply
Give
Contact












 
 New MS in Biostatistics Program
 
 


 
 Learn more about our new program and apply today!
 
 





 
 Why UofM SPH?
 
 


 
 Find out what sets us apart as a CEPH-accredited school in the heart of Memphis
 
 





 
 Explore our ranked graduate degree programs
 
 


 
 Choose among our three master's programs, three doctoral programs, or three certificates
 
 





 
 Research for the real world
 
 


 
 Our students and faculty conduct community-based research related to obesity, tobacco,
 HIV, sickle cell disease, and more.
 
 





 
 SPH News & Events
 
 


 
 Our students are driven by doing and making headlines
 
 





 
 Alumni & Support
 
 


 
 Stay up to date with current alumni news or give to the School of Public Health
 
 


PreviousNext










Take Action



Apply Now
Explore Programs
Alumni & Support
FAQ




Follow SPH Online
Facebooktwitter

Nationally Ranked

#
 							
 
 
 33
 
 

 
 U.S. News and World Report
 
 
 
 
 MHA - Health Care Management - Graduate 
 
 

View All Rankings



Home
 	School of Public Health
 	

Preparing the next generation of public health leaders.
As a major metropolitan research university, the University of Memphis is dedicated
 to generating new knowledge and best practices that provide practical solutions to
 the problems that impact the communities we serve. We respond to pressing community
 health needs through engaged research and community outreach. We provide hands-on
 experiences for our students to increase their capacity for engagement and service.
 
Do you envision having a career where you can make a difference?
Explore our Programs >
 
 
Things to Note




 
Public Health Champions Club Collects Items for Domestic Violence Victims
  The newly-formed Public Health Champions Club is conducting a toiletry & supplies
 drive to collect items for victims of domestic violence. All donated items will be
 delivered to United Way of the MidSouth. Donations will be accepted through October
 21st. A collection bin is located in the Undergraduate Student Hub (Room 106).  
 
The following items are needed: Baby care items; Shampoo/Conditioner; Deodorant; Hand
 sanitizer; Feminine products; New bedding & towels; Pillows; Paper towels; Soap; Tissues;
 Toothbrushes and toothpaste.  Your donations will be greatly appreciated!
 
 
Calling all SPH Students 
        
YOU ARE INVITED!!!! 
School of Public Health Virtual Town Hall Meeting 
Friday, Oct. 22, 2021 from Noon-1pm Central Time 
Please join our informal open house for students to chat with Interim Dean Levy: 
https://memphis.zoom.us/j/82500225311?pwd=Z0NITDdOeXpncXREL2xDcnRKc3FmZz09&from=addon
Meeting ID: 825 0022 5311Passcode: 992378 One tap mobile
 
 
CEPH Re-accredits School of Public Health for 7 years
The School of Public Health is pleased to announce that the Council on Education for
 Public Health has re-accredited the School for a full seven-year term. The accreditation
 decision came at the CEPH Board of Councilors meeting on March 7-8, 2021. The accreditation
 report may be accessed here.  
 
 
 
School of Public Health Assesses COVID-19 Mask Usage
The School of Public Health is conducting research in collaboration with the Mayor's
 Joint COVID-19 Task Force to assess levels of compliance with facial mask policies
 in Shelby County. Led by Dr. Marian Levy and Dr. Vikki Nolan, four MPH students (Jerelyn
 Carmichael, Gabby Dowdy, Erick Kalobwe, and Becky Kronenberg) have observed mask usage
 among approximately 12,000 individuals in 20 retail sites across Shelby County. The
 students have presented the study findings to the City Council and Mayor's COVID-19
 Task Force. Click here for study results and a FOX-13 news interview.
 
 




SPH Announces 2020 Student Achievement Award Recipients
Each year, the School of Public Health provides Student Achievement Awards to recognize
 outstanding students in each of our Master's and Doctoral programs of study. These
 awards are highly-competitive and reflect outstanding academic achievement, research
 accomplishments, and contribution to the field of public health. We are pleased to
 announce the recipients for 2020. Read More>




 

















Admissions


Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour



Academics


Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware



Athletics


gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media



Research


Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research



Support UofM


Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Corporate & Foundation Relations



Administrative Support


President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services 
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology Services
TigerHelp
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation





 

Follow UofM Online

Instagram 
Facebook 
twitter 
Youtube 
LinkedIn 


 














Print
Got a Question? Ask
 TOM
Copyright
 ©
 2019 The University of Memphis

Important Notice



Last Updated: 10/18/21


The
 University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.

 








































