https://alumni.memphis.edu/





 

	University of Memphis - Advancement

















































Page Top















 Menu











University Advancement



 First Time Login! Login Support 



Make a Gift Today



$
Gift amount

















 Alumni Get Involved Membership Alumni Career Services Tiger Business Network History & Traditions Honors & Awards Board of Directors Connect Events Virtual Engagement Volunteer News Association of Retirees (UMAR) Current Students Tiger Community Alumni Directory Support Give Now Ways to Give Giving Societies Planned Giving Annual Giving Corporate & Foundation Relations Impact Student Impact Donor Recognition Bruns Challenge Resources Our Team FAQs Donor Resources Student Resources Update Your Info memphis.edu > 










Home Page









































Featured Stats









10000+
Alumni Worldwide



0+
ScholarshipsAY21



0M+
Raised for The UofMFY20





















Alumni Connections
Wherever you are, you're a Tiger. Your connection to this campus does not end when you graduate. When you participate in the UofM Alumni Association, you're not just giving back to a school - you're Supporting a community and a vibrant, growing network.

Connect with Fellow Tigers
Ways To Give
Get Involved
Update Your Info
Career Resources
















Upcoming Events



 Dec 10 UMAR Classic Film Series: North by Northwest Join UMAR and UofM professor emeritus Steven Ross for a viewing & discussion of Alfred Hitchcock's North by Northwest (1959). Join UMAR and UofM professor emeritus Steven Ross for a viewing & discussion of Alfred Hitchcock's North by Northwest (1959). Dec 11 HAC Salsa Social Come Salsa dance and socialize with the UofM Hispanic Alumni Council and the Mid-South Latino Chamber of Commerce! $20 per person.  Come Salsa dance and socialize with the UofM Hispanic Alumni Council and the Mid-South Latino Chamber of Commerce! $20 per person.  

View all Events













Latest News



 Giving...Multiplied UofM Black alumni use their power to create scholarships for generations to come.  Bruns Scholarship Challenge Support funding student scholarships and break down financial barriers for current and future Tigers! Alumni Oral History Project Nothing connects us like the power of storytelling! We are collecting stories from our alumni and friends to memorialize the history of the campus experience through the years.   

View all News















Tiger Stories












The value of education cannot be simply summed up in tuition dollars or the conferring of a degree. The True Value of education stems from the ability to dream, think and do more than ever before.
Dr. Mario E. Brown(BSET'03, EdD '12)



















Dr. Mario E. Brown(BSET'03, EdD '12)














 



Together, We Make Memphis Stronger




 Support UofM Make a Gift Ways to Give Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Alumni Menu Connect with Tigers Get Involved Update Your Information Career Resources Services and Benefits Main Menu Admissions Academics Athletics Research Administrative Support 


Facebook


Instagram


Twitter


YouTube


Linkedin


Flickr






UofM Office of Advancement
Administrative Building, Room 323
Memphis, TN 38152 | 901.678.3951



UofM Alumni Association
635 Normal Street
Memphis, TN 38152 | 901.678.ALUM











Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM

 Copyright © 

 The University of Memphis 
Important Notice 




The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000




The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.


Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.












Mobile Menu


Close Menu



 Alumni Get Involved Membership Alumni Career Services Tiger Business Network History & Traditions Honors & Awards Board of Directors Connect Events Virtual Engagement Volunteer News Association of Retirees (UMAR) Current Students Tiger Community Alumni Directory Support Give Now Ways to Give Giving Societies Planned Giving Annual Giving Corporate & Foundation Relations Impact Student Impact Donor Recognition Bruns Challenge Resources Our Team FAQs Donor Resources Student Resources Update Your Info memphis.edu > 
 First Time Login! Login Support 


 
 










